Title: Exploring Weaknesses of Generative Image Watermarks against Latent Frequency Masking

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2610.02010v1

Published Time: Fri, 02 Oct 2026 02:11:16 GMT

Number of Pages: 10

Markdown Content:
# Exploring Weaknesses of Generative Image Watermarks against Latent Frequency Masking 

Kirill Aistov ∗, Khaled Abud †∗ , Irina Serzhenko, Egor Kovalev ∗,Aleksey Yakushev †, Aleksandr Akimenkov †, Dmitry Obydenkov †, Yury Markin †,Sergey Lavrushkin ∗, Dmitriy Vatolin ∗ and Anastasia Antsiferova †∗ ∗MSU AI Institute, Moscow, Russia Email: aistovkk@my.msu.ru, {khaled.abud, egor.kovalev, sergey.lavrushkin, dmitriy }@graphics.cs.msu.ru 

†Trusted AI Research Center RAS, Moscow, Russia Email: {h.abud, yakushev, a.akimenkov, obydenkov, ustas, aantsiferova }@ispras.ru 

Abstract —Invisible watermarking has become a central tool for tracing AI-generated images, but its robustness against adaptive removal attacks remains an open security question. We introduce Latent Frequency Masking, an attack that erases watermark evidence by replacing selected Fourier coefficients in the la-tent representation of a watermarked image. The replacement can be sampled from Gaussian noise for efficiency or derived from diffusion regeneration for improved image preservation. We provide a theoretical distortion bound relating the change between the reconstructed adversarial image and the masked latent-frequency perturbation. We evaluate the proposed attack against six diffusion watermarking methods on images generated from DiffusionDB and MS-COCO prompts. Latent Frequency Masking removes or substantially weakens several watermarks while preserving perceptual quality and achieving favorable runtime compared with existing attacks. These results identify latent-frequency manipulation as a practical attack surface and highlight the need to include such attacks in robustness evalua-tions of generative image watermarking. 

Index Terms —Image watermarking, diffusion models, gener-ative AI security, watermark removal attacks, latent frequency masking 

I. I NTRODUCTION 

The rapid advancement of generative AI has started a new era of photorealistic image synthesis. Modern diffusion-based and autoregressive models can produce images of remarkable quality, making it difficult to distinguish synthetic content from authentic photographs. While these capabilities unlock signifi-cant creative and commercial potential, they also create critical societal challenges: preventing AI-generated misinformation, deepfakes, and fabricated visual content. Detecting generated images through empirical classifiers has proven insufficient — such models tend to overfit to the artifacts of specific generators and fail to generalize to unseen architectures [1]. As a result, digital watermarking has emerged as the main paradigm for tracking AI-generated content: embedded im-perceptible marks at the time of generation can later indicate 

The work of K. Abud, A. Yakushev, A. Akimenkov, D. Obydenkov, Y. Markin and A. Antsiferova was supported by a grant, provided by the Ministry of Economic Development of the Russian Federation (agreement dated June 20, 2025 No. 139-15-2025-011, identifier 000000C313925P4G0002). Text Prompt  

> “A motorcycle parked near a fence by a beach.”
> GenAI Provider 11011101...
> Latent Diffusion Model
> User
> Latent Frequency Masking
> Adversarial Attack
> Erasing
> Attacked Image

Watermark Verifier  

> Published Watermarked Image
> Watermark not detected Watermark detected

Fig. 1. Overview of the watermark robustness evaluation setup 

which generation model has been used and even the exact user session. The urgency of this approach has been recognized at the policy level [2]: the EU and China now mandate detectable marking of AI outputs, while the US is moving toward similar requirements through state law and proposed federal legislation. The practical security of watermarking schemes remains an open question. As new watermarking methods are proposed, new attacks are designed to remove or corrupt the embedded signal. Figure 1 illustrates this setting: a provider embeds an imperceptible watermark at generation time, after which an adversary may attempt to erase it before publication, while a verifier seeks to recover the mark from the published image. A substantial body of work has examined the vulnerability of spatial-domain and learning-based watermarks; however, one class of methods has received comparatively little scrutiny: frequency-based watermarking schemes that encode informa-tion in an image’s spectral representation. In this paper, we expose a previously unreported vulnerabil-ity in this family of methods. We demonstrate that frequency-domain watermarks can be systematically removed via an ad-versarial attack that remains visually imperceptible, preserving ©2026 IEEE arXiv:2610.02010v1 [cs.CV] 1 Oct 2026 image quality while fully neutralizing the embedded signal. To our knowledge, we are the first to systematically exploit latent-frequency masking against this class. We further discuss potential defense strategies and analyze their trade-offs. Our main contributions are as follows:  

> •

We identify and formalize a novel attack surface in gen-erative image watermarking: the latent-frequency rep-resentation obtained by applying the Fourier transform to a diffusion model’s VAE latent.  

> •

We propose Latent Frequency Masking (LFM) , agradient-free removal attack that suppresses watermark evidence by replacing selected latent-frequency coeffi-cients, with two replacement strategies — efficient Gaus-sian sampling and image-adaptive diffusion regeneration.  

> •

We derive a distortion bound relating the pixel-space change to the VAE reconstruction error and the masked latent-frequency perturbation, characterizing the qual-ity–removal trade-off.  

> •

We conduct extensive experiments against six diffusion watermarking schemes on DiffusionDB and MS-COCO, showing that LFM removes or substantially weakens most while preserving perceptual quality and achieving favor-able runtime, and we analyze why distributed embedding (e.g., Gaussian Shading) resists it. II. R ELATED WORK 

A. Invisible Watermarking Methods 

Digital image watermarking techniques can be categorized by the stage at which the watermark is embedded. The following classification of methods is proposed: i) post-generation methods, which apply a watermark to already generated or captured images. ii) in-generation methods, which integrate the watermark directly into the image creation process, 

Post-generation methods , which are applied to already existing images, traditionally operate in the spatial, discrete cosine, Fourier, or wavelet domains. These methods embed watermarks into selected frequency coefficients [3]–[5]. Con-temporary neural methods adhere to the ’encoder — noise layer — decoder’ architecture pioneered by HiDDeN [6], frequently incorporating invertible networks [7], adversarial training, and attention mechanisms to enhance imperceptibility and robustness [8]–[11]. To demonstrate resilience against geometric attacks, recent works also explore multi-region embedding [12], [13] and synchronization patterns [14]. 

In-Generation methods have become the dominant ap-proach for AI-generated content provenance. The majority of these models operate by modifying latent representation, either before or during the diffusion process. Tree-Ring [15] embeds a structured ring-shaped pattern in the frequency domain of the initial noise, achieving strong ro-bustness to geometric transformations. Subsequent works [16], [17] extended this idea with discretized ring patterns and multi-bit encoding. MaXsive [18] injects a structured X-shaped template into the latent noise to enable geometric alignment, while encoding the watermark message in separate latent components. Gaussian Shading [19] preserves the sta-tistical properties of the noise and embeds the watermark by modulating latent variables according to predefined quantile intervals of the normal distribution. Stable Signature [20] adopts a different strategy by fine-tuning the generative model itself, specifically the VAE decoder, to imprint a watermark into the generated latent. Compared with post-generation watermarks, in-generation methods offer several practical advantages that motivate our focus. By weaving the mark into the sampling trajectory rather than adding it afterward, several designs achieve minimal per-ceptual degradation — e.g., Gaussian Shading [19] is provably distribution-preserving — while exhibiting markedly stronger robustness to conventional distortions than spatial-domain post-hoc schemes; standardized stress tests [21] confirm that methods like Tree-Ring [15] withstand perturbations on which post-hoc watermarks usually fail. This combination of quality and resilience is precisely what makes their security against adaptive, watermark-aware removal an open and consequential question — the one we examine in this work. 

B. Attacks on Invisible Watermarks 

The robustness of watermarking schemes is determined not only by resistance to benign image distortions, but also by the strength of the attacker considered during evaluation. Standard perturbations such as JPEG compression, blur, noise, cropping, and geometric transforms remain necessary sanity checks, yet recent work shows that robustness to such distortions does not imply security against adaptive removal or forgery. One line of work studies analytical attacks that estimate the watermark directly. Yang et al. [22] show that content-agnostic watermark patterns can often be recovered by averaging multi-ple watermarked images and subtracting the estimated pattern, and that this estimate may even enable forgery. A second major family comprises regeneration-based attacks. Zhao et al. [23] demonstrate that invisible watermarks can be removed by first perturbing an image and then reconstructing it with a generative prior, which motivates diffusion-based baselines such as Diffusion Regeneration and Diffusion Rinsing attacks used in our experiments. Related diffusion purification and model-substitution attacks were analyzed by Saberi et al. [24]. Liang et al. [25] further show that Deep Image Prior can serve as a competitive black-box baseline, while Alam et al. [26] improve the quality–removal trade-off with saliency-aware diffusion reconstruction (SADRE). Another line of work studies adaptive and optimization-based removal. Lukas et al. [27] formulate watermark evasion as an optimization problem and show that optimized attacks can substantially outperform fixed perturbation baselines. Un-Marker [28] further argues that robust defensive watermarks necessarily rely on spectral carriers and introduces a universal spectral attack that succeeds without detector feedback, mak-ing it particularly relevant to frequency-based watermarking. Complementary work also considers model-level attacks: Hu et al. [29] show that decoder-rooted watermarks such as Stable Signature can be neutralized by fine-tuning the generator itself. Finally, recent studies emphasize that removal is only one side of the threat model. Muller et al. [30] and Souˇ cek et al. [31] demonstrate realistic black-box forgery and removal attacks for diffusion and post-hoc image watermarks, with the latter corresponding to the WMForger method in our ex-periments. Overall, current evidence suggests that watermark robustness should be assessed not only under conventional distortions but also against steganalytic, regenerative, adaptive, and forgery-oriented attacks. III. P ROPOSED METHOD 

A. Problem Statement 

We consider the following realistic attack setting. 

Watermarking process. Let W be a watermarking scheme that produces a watermarked image xw provided a secret key κ. The watermarking process can be integrated into the image generation process, in which case, given a prompt P ,

xw = W(P, κ ). Another case is a watermark applied post-hoc: given an image without a watermark x, xw = W(x, κ )

The watermarking scheme is associated with a verifier V

which, given a query image xq , outputs a probability p =

V(xq ) ∈ [0 , 1] of the image being watermarked. The image is considered watermarked if p ≥ τ for a chosen threshold τ .

Adversary’s objective. Given a watermarked image xw, the adversary attempts to produce an attacked image xa = A(xw)

with the following goals: 1) Minimize the probability produced by V until the image is no longer considered watermarked V(xa) < τ 

2) Maximize the perceptual quality of the attacked image relative to the watermarked image Q(xa, x w), i.e., min-imize the distortion introduced by the attack. Various quality metrics can be selected, e.g., PSNR, SSIM [32], LPIPS [33]. 

Adversary’s capabilities We adopt a threat model in which the adversary has access to: 1) the watermarked image xw;2) a publicly available trained latent diffusion model 

(E, D, ϵ θ ) with VAE encoder E, decoder D, and noise prediction network ϵθ which was used to produce the image xw;3) the ability to query the public verifier V.The adversary is assumed not to have access to: 1) the clean image x;2) the watermark key κ;3) the prompt P used during generation; 4) any internal details of the verifier V, including its archi-tecture or parameters. 

B. Algorithm description 

The proposed attack encodes the image using the VAE encoder, computes the spectrum via FFT, performs masking based on a mask and a replacement vector in the frequency region, computes inverse FFT, and produces an outptut image with the VAE decoder. Figure 2 provides an overview of our 

Latent Frequency Masking attack. We discuss the steps of the algorithm and the rationale behind them below. 

1) Masking vector generation: We use a vector which we denote as ˆy to replace the watermarked frequencies. We propose two strategies for ˆy generation below. 

Gaussian replacement. We sample y from the standard Gaus-sian distribution N (0 , I ) and compute ˆy = F(y). This choice is motivated by the fact that during the training of the VAE, an additional loss is used to keep the latent distribution closer to 

N (0 , I ). By using a random vector, we discard the watermark information while keeping the latent “in-distribution” for the decoder, thereby ensuring higher-quality decoded images. 

Diffusion-regeneration replacement. As an image-adaptive replacement strategy, we use diffusion regeneration to con-struct ˆy. Diffusion regeneration is a common baseline for watermark removal because it partially resamples the image through a generative prior, which can disrupt watermark signals that are not preserved by the regeneration process. Let ˜A denote a diffusion-regeneration attack applied to the watermarked image, and let 

˜xa = ˜A(xw)

be the regenerated image. We then encode this image into the latent space and compute its spectrum: 

y = E(˜ xa), ˆy = F(y).

The motivation for this strategy is that diffusion regeneration can suppress watermark information, but may also introduce visible changes or alter fine image details. By using its latent representation only as the replacement source inside the masked frequency region, Latent Frequency Masking can inherit part of its watermark-removal effect while preserving the unmasked coefficients of the original watermarked image. Using random noise lets us keep the algorithm simple and efficient, however, it essentially discards some information present in the latent. Regeneration attack allows us to retain more information about the semantics of the image, but makes the overall algorithm more complex. 

2) Mask selection: Selecting the correct mask is paramount for the success of the attack. Kassis et al. [28] analyze possible locations for watermarking information based on the require-ments of Universal Applicability, Universal Stealthiness, and Robustness to Manipulations. They propose that, based on these requirements, the watermark carrier must reside in the spectral domain. This motivates our choice to perform masking in the Fourier space. They also hypothesize that for ”semantic” or generative watermarks, the watermarking information will inhabit the low-frequency areas. We use a binary mask m to encode the watermark location. To disrupt the watermark, the algorithm discards the infor-mation in the latent space guided by the mask, rendering the watermark undetectable. At the same time, it leaves a significant portion of the latent intact, thereby retaining the image quality and keeping the attacked image close to the original. Auxiliary Regeneration Attack  

> 1001001...
> Watermarked Image
> 1101001...
> Encoded Image
> 2D Fourier Transform Frequency Masking

Strategy 1: Diffusion-regeneration replacement  

> 2D Fourier Transform Frequency Masking
> Attacked Image
> Inverse Transform
> 0011100...

Strategy 2: Gaussian replacement   

> Frequency Masking 2D Fourier Transform Fig. 2. The overall scheme of the proposed Latent Frequency Masking removal algorithm

Based on the rationale from [28], we propose the following configuration for possible masks. We select a subset of the channels of the latent vector S ⊆ { 1, . . . , C } and define the mask for each of them as follows: 

mijc =

(

1, (i − i0)2 + ( j − j0)2 ≤ r2

0, (i − i0)2 + ( j − j0)2 > r 2 (1) where c ∈ S, i0, j 0 represent the center point of the latent, i.e., i0 = ⌊H/ 2⌋, j0 = ⌊W/ 2⌋, and r is the radius of the mask, which we consider a parameter. For channels that were not selected, c / ∈ S, we set the mask to 0. The final mask is defined by its radius and selected channels. These parameters define a relatively small search space; in our experiments, we use exhaustive search to establish the optimal configuration for each of the tested watermarking algorithms using TPR@1%FPR as the selection objective. We select 

r ∈ { 10 , 15 } and S as every single channel and every pair of channels, which gives us 2 ∗ (4 + 6) = 20 variants to search; we consider this number acceptable in realistic scenarios. 

3) Algorithm: The first step of the attack consists of producing the latent vector zw corresponding to xw via the VAE encoder zw = E(xw) ∈ RH×W ×C . The next step is computing the channel-wise 2-dimensional Fourier transform 

ˆzw = F(zw) ∈ CH×W ×C

Given the binary mask m ∈ BH×W ×C (where B = {0, 1}), a masking vector ˆy ∈ CH×W ×C , and a parameter β ∈ [0 , 1] ,we perform partial masking of a part of the latent. The new latent is produced via 

ˆzaijc =

(

β ˆzwijc + (1 − β)ˆ yijc , mijc = 1 ˆzwijc , mijc = 0 (2) The parameter β controls the strength of the replacement inside the masked frequency region. When β = 1 , the masked coefficients remain equal to the original latent coefficients; when β = 0, the masked coefficients are fully replaced. Intermediate values interpolate between these two cases. Co-efficients outside the mask are independent of β and remain unchanged. Finally, we compute the inverse Fourier transform 

za = F−1(ˆ za)

and recover the resulting image using the VAE decoder 

xa = D(za)

The complete algorithm is presented in Algorithm 1. For the Gaussian replacement strategy, the attack requires a single forward pass through the VAE encoder and decoder, Gaussian noise sampling, and forward and inverse Fourier transform cal-culation, which makes it computationally efficient. Diffusion-regeneration replacement strategy involves diffusion calcula-tion, an additional encoder pass, and a Fourier transform. Our algorithm does not employ any gradient computation or optimization steps. The code for the algorithm is available at https://github.com/alvitrioliks/lfm. 

C. Theoretical analysis 

This section provides a theoretical analysis of the distortion introduced by the attack. We prove that the distortion is bounded and depends on the parameters of the algorithm. 

Theorem 1 (Distortion bound for latent frequency masking) .

Let xw ∈ RHI ×WI ×3 be a watermarked image generated by a latent diffusion model (E, D, ϵ θ ), and zw = E(xw) ∈

RH×W ×C be the latent produced from xw.Let F denote a channel-wise 2-dimensional unitary discrete Fourier transform on the latent space, and write ˆzw = F(zw).Let m ∈ BH×W ×C be a binary frequency mask, let ˆy ∈

CH×W ×C be the masking vector and let ˆza ∈ CH×W ×C be the attacked latent frequency coefficients defined in (2) ,Let za = F−1(ˆ za) and xa = D(za) be the attacked latent and the attacked image produced by Algorithm 1. Assume that the decoder D is L-Lipschitz with respect to the Euclidean norm, i.e., 

∥D (z) − D (z′)∥2 ≤ L∥z − z′∥2 for all z, z ′ ∈ RH×W ×C .

Then the pixel-space distortion introduced by latent frequency masking satisfies 

∥xw−xa∥2 ≤ ∥ xw−D (E(xw)) ∥2+L

s X

> i,j,c :mijc =1

ˆzwijc − ˆzaijc 

> 2

.

Proof. Since xa = D(za), and using the triangle inequality Algorithm 1 Latent frequency masking 

Require: Watermarked image xw, encoder E and decoder D

from a Latent Diffusion Model with latent dimension K =

H × W × C, mask m ∈ BH×W ×C , parameter β, masking mode s

Require: Existing attack ˜A if s = ATTACK 

Ensure: Attacked image xa 

> 1:

zw ← E (xw) ▷ Encode to latent space  

> 2:

ˆzw ← F (zw) ▷ Fourier transform  

> 3:

if s = GAUSSIAN then  

> 4:

y ∼ N (0 , I ), y ∈ RH×W ×C ▷ Sample Gaussian noise in latent space  

> 5:

ˆy ← F (y) ▷ Fourier transform the noise  

> 6:

else if s = DIFFUSION then  

> 7:

˜xa ← ˜A(xw) ▷ Produce an attacked image  

> 8:

y ← E (˜ xa) ▷ Encode to latent space  

> 9:

ˆy ← F (y) ▷ Fourier transform  

> 10:

end if  

> 11:

for i ← 1 to H, j ← 1 to W , c ← 1 to C do  

> 12:

if mijc = 1 then  

> 13:

ˆzaijc ← β ˆzwijc + (1 − β)ˆ yijc  

> 14:

else  

> 15:

ˆzaijc ← ˆzwijc  

> 16:

end if  

> 17:

end for  

> 18:

za ← F −1(ˆ za) ▷ Inverse Fourier transform  

> 19:

xa ← D (za) ▷ Decode to pixel space  

> 20:

return xa

∥xw − xa∥2 = ∥xw − D (za)∥2

≤ ∥ xw − D (zw)∥2 + ∥D (zw) − D (za)∥2

(3) From the Lipschitz property 

∥D (zw) − D (za)∥2 ≤ L∥zw − za∥2

Using a well-known property of the Fourier transform known as the Parseval theorem or the Plancherel theorem 

L∥zw − za∥2 = L∥F (zw − za)∥2

Note that the output of the Fourier transform is complex, and the complex l2 norm is used for the right-hand side. Since the Fourier transform is a linear transformation 

L∥F (zw − za)∥2 = L∥F (zw) − F (za)∥2 = L∥ˆzw − ˆza∥2 =

By the definition of the l2 norm 

= L

vuut HX

> iW

X

> jC

X

> c

ˆzwijc − ˆzaijc  

> 2

=

Notice that ˆzwijc = ˆzaijc for i, j, c such that mijc ̸ = 1,therefore 

= L

s X

> i,j,c :mijc =1

ˆzwijc − ˆzaijc  

> 2

(4) Combining (3) and (4), and using zw = E(xw) we get the desired bound. 

Discussion The theorem states that the distortion introduced into the watermarked image by the attack process is bounded by the sum of the VAE reconstruction error and the distance between the latents in the region of frequencies defined by the mask. The size of the mask directly impacts the distortion: the smaller the masked region, the lower the distortion introduced. This insight guides the selection of mask radius in our exper-iments: we want to select the smallest radius that allows us to erase the watermarking information. The choice of the vector ˆy also affects the distortion: the closer it is to ˆzw, the better. This helps to justify the design of the Diffusion replacement strategy: since the regenerated image is similar to the original, the latents will also be similar, and therefore the distortion will be lower. 

The Lipschitz continuity of the decoder One of the assump-tions in Theorem 1 is that the VAE decoder is Lipschitz con-tinuous. This assumption is natural for the Stable Diffusion de-coder used in our experiments. After its weights are fixed, the decoder is a deterministic map D : RH×W ×C → RHI ×WI ×3

implemented by a neural network. The network is built from convolutional and linear layers, pointwise activation functions, upsampling operations, residual connections, attention blocks, and normalization layers. The composition of Lipschitz maps is also Lipschitz, with a constant bounded by the product of the constituent constants (and by corresponding sums for residual branches). Therefore, if all the building blocks are Lipschitz under the Euclidean norm, then the decoder also admits some finite Lipschitz constant L.Prior work gives bounds and estimation procedures for fully connected layers, convolutional layers, pooling layers, activa-tion functions, normalization, and residual connections under 

ℓ2, ℓ1, and ℓ∞ norms [34]. For attention blocks, however, the situation is more complex: by itself, the standard dot-product self-attention is not globally Lipschitz for an unbounded input domain [35]. However, it can be shown that together with normalization layers, the combined map is Lipschitz. In particular, [36] proves that for inputs of length n restricted to any compact set, self-attention has an explicit finite Lipschitz upper bound. In the considered architecture, GroupNorm is applied before the query, key, and value projections, and since GroupNorm normalizes each channel group using variance, its output is bounded. Hence, the attention module only receives inputs in a bounded set, and the bounded-domain Lipschitz result applies. The combined map is therefore Lipschitz with a constant obtained by composing the GroupNorm, attention, and residual constants. We note that, in practice, the Lipschitz constant depends on the weights and architecture of the specific decoder network. For a deep decoder, the worst-case bound may be somewhat loose, because the product of layer constants can be large. We do not rely on the numerical value of L in our attack; the as-sumption is used only to justify that small latent perturbations imply bounded changes in the decoded image. IV. E XPERIMENTS 

The prompts for evaluation are drawn from two publicly available datasets, namely DiffusionDB [37] and MS-COCO [38], 1000 prompts are selected from each. The corresponding watermarked images are generated from the prompts using the respective watermarking methods and their underlying diffu-sion model (all methods employ Stable Diffusion v2.1 [39] as a base model). We perform the parameter search needed for LFM on a set of 100 watermarked images generated from DiffusionDB prompts separate from the main evaluation set. 

A. Compared methods 

We evaluate our algorithm against six representative dif-fusion watermarking methods, namely Stable Signature [20], Tree-Ring [15], RingID [16], Gaussian Shading [19], Maxsive [18], and METR [17]. We perform a comparison with image distortions which are known to hinder watermark performance, such as Gaus-sian Blur, Gaussian Noise, JPEG compression, Rotation, and Random Cropout, as well as several existing attack methods, including Adversarial Embedding [21], Diffusion Regenera-tion [23], Diffusion Rinsing [21], DIP [25], SADRE [26], WMForger [31], WMRemovalAttack [30] and Unmarker [28] to comprehensively evaluate the effectiveness of attacks and the quality of the attacked images. We select the FLUX [40] model for Diffusion Regeneration and Diffusion Rinsing, as well as for the Diffusion replacement strategy in LFM. 

B. Evaluation metrics 

We evaluate watermark erasing attacks from two perspec-tives: (i) how reliably the watermark can be removed using the given transformation, and (ii) how much this distortion affects the image quality. The first perspective concerns the reliability of watermark extraction. Reliability evaluation depends on whether a method embeds only a detectable signal or a full binary payload. In zero-bit watermarking, the detector decides whether a water-mark is present, yielding a binary detection setting. Practical systems are usually expected to operate under strict false-alarm constraints; therefore, robustness is commonly summarized by the True Positive Rate achieved at a predefined low False Positive Rate, i.e., TPR@x%FPR, we use an FPR of 1%. For methods that embed multi-bit messages, extraction quality is determined by the similarity between the recovered and original payloads. Multi-bit extraction can also be inter-preted as a detection problem by using the agreement between the embedded and decoded messages as a detection score. This makes it possible to compare payload-based methods with zero-bit methods using the same operating-point metrics, including TPR@x%FPR. The second perspective focuses on the image quality. When a reference image is available, the distortion caused by the erasing method can be measured with full-reference metrics such as PSNR, SSIM [32], and LPIPS [33]. They evaluate pixel-level correspondence between the distorted and reference images. In settings where no clean reference is available, perceptual quality can instead be estimated with no-reference image quality metrics. To this end, we employ the popular CLIP-IQA [41] model. V. R ESULTS 

A. Attack Performance 

Figure 3 reports TPR@1%FPR versus image quality, mea-sured by PSNR, for the six watermarking methods. For Latent Frequency Masking, each point corresponds to a specific β

parameter; we select β = 0 , 0.2, 0.4, 0.6, 0.8. Mask radius and channels are selected for each watermarking method using the method described in Section III-B2, namely c = 1 , r = 10 for Tree-Ring, Gaussian Shading, and Stable Signature, c = 4 ,

r = 10 for METR and c = {1, 4}, r = 15 for Maxsive and RingID. We also vary parameters for several attacks, namely compression strength for JPEG, filter size for Gaussian blur, noise σ for Gaussian noise, crop size for Random Cropout, size of the perturbation ε for adversarial embedding, and learning rate for WMForger. The results show that Latent Frequency Masking (LFM) achieves strong attack performance across most methods, achieving TPR@1%FPR close to 0 for Stable Signature, Tree-Ring, RingID, Maxsive, and METR for certain β parameters. Notably, LFM is the only method capable of reliably erasing the Tree-Ring watermark within reasonable quality constraints. Latent Frequency Masking with Diffusion replacement strat-egy achieves higher image quality compared to the Gaussian strategy, with several dB PSNR improvement in exchange for increased complexity. For MaxSive, however, it fails to erase the watermark; this could be explained by the fact that MaxSive is resistant to Diffusion Regeneration, using regen-erated values for the replacement introduces watermarking information back into the latent. For Gaussian Shading, almost all attacks except for Rotation and Unmarker are unable to bypass the watermark, and even they perform poorly in terms of quality. The lack of success of the Latent Frequency Masking attack can be explained by the fact that Gaussian Shading, by design, embeds the watermark-ing information throughout the entire latent, rendering partial masking ineffective. Figure 4 shows attack performance versus image quality according to the LPIPS metric. It can be seen that, in terms of LPIPS and PSNR, LFM performs similarly. The Diffu-sion replacement strategy still achieves better quality than Gaussian; however, the improvement is less pronounced. For Stable Signature, LFM outperforms all other attacks in LPIPS, achieving almost a perfect removal rate across all quality levels. Figures 3 and 4 show that in most cases, LFM achieves Pareto-optimal performance among tested methods in terms of image quality-efficiency tradeoff. Table I presents performance and quality metrics of attacks averaged across all six watermarking methods on DiffusionDB Attack  (ours) 

> (ours)

Fig. 3. Removal efficiency (TPR@1%FPR ↓ of the watermark after attack) vs image quality (PSNR ↑) for different attacks measured on DiffusionDB dataset. Lower-right is better; LFM variants sit on the Pareto front for all methods except Gaussian Shading TABLE I ATTACK PERFORMANCE AND QUALITY METRICS AVERAGED ACROSS ALL TESTED WATERMARKS ON DIFFUSION DB AND MS-COCO DATASETS                                                                                                                                       

> DiffusionDB MS-COCO Robustness Quality metrics Robustness Quality metrics Attack TPR@1%FPR ↓PSNR ↑SSIM ↑LPIPS ↓CLIP IQA ↑TPR@1%FPR ↓PSNR ↑SSIM ↑LPIPS ↓CLIP IQA ↑
> No attack 0.97 ∞1.000 0.000 0.866 0.98 ∞1.000 0.000 0.883 Adv. Embedding [21] 0.71 22.2 0.462 0.402 0.349 0.71 22.3 0.459 0.439 0.301 Diff. Regeneration [23] 0.51 21.7 0.620 0.205 0.840 0.51 22.4 0.657 0.178 0.833 Diff. Rinsing [21] 0.42 20.1 0.553 0.258 0.856 0.44 20.8 0.591 0.223 0.838 DIP [25] 0.86 31.9 0.929 0.105 0.714 0.91 32.3 0.942 0.099 0.771 SADRE [26] 0.69 19.9 0.733 0.114 0.860 0.69 21.2 0.777 0.109 0.848 Unmarker [28] 0.35 12.8 0.274 0.419 0.699 0.38 12.9 0.281 0.402 0.664 WMForger [31] 0.85 32.3 0.891 0.143 0.629 0.87 33.1 0.906 0.129 0.698 WMRemovalAttack [30] 0.73 30.8 0.837 0.185 0.746 0.73 31.1 0.845 0.213 0.656 LFM Gaussian (ours) 0.36 21.6 0.802 0.119 0.857 0.32 21.2 0.817 0.129 0.887 LFM Diffusion (ours) 0.44 28.4 0.897 0.043 0.848 0.44 28.9 0.908 0.045 0.887

and MS-COCO datasets. We select β = 0 .4 for LFM Gaussian and β = 0 for LFM Diffusion since they achieve a good trade-off in quality and performance. LFM Gaussian, together with Unmarker achieve the lowest TPR@1%FPR score. For LFM Diffusion TPR@1%FPR is slightly worse due to its poor performance on MaxSive; the quality metrics are significantly higher. Both LFM variants also show high quality according to all 4 measured quality metrics, placing close to the top among the measured algorithms. These findings show that Latent Frequency Masking not only successfully bypasses watermark verification in most cases but also, on average, outperforms current attacks in terms of overall performance-quality tradeoff. 

B. Attack Speed Comparison 

Figure 5 presents a plot of attack performance vs the computation times of attacks that were used for comparison in this paper. The timings were measured on a server with an NVIDIA RTX A6000 GPU and averaged over the 1000 images from the DiffusionDB dataset. We do not include time for parameter search for LFM since it is performed once per watermarking algorithm and the selected parameters are reused for each tested image. Latent Frequency Masking with Gaussian replacement strategy achieves the highest attack speed among the compared algorithms while having com-parable or better attack performance. For Latent Frequency Masking with the Diffusion replacement strategy, speed is predictably comparable to Diffusion Regeneration; however, it’s notable that it performs slightly better in terms of quality and performance. 

C. Visual Comparison 

Figure 6 presents a visual comparison of several attack methods. It can be seen that some of the methods introduce visible artifacts or noticeably change image details. LFM mostly avoids this; however, we note that it still disturbs color Attack  (ours) 

> (ours)

Fig. 4. Removal efficiency (TPR@1%FPR ↓ of the watermark after attack) vs image quality (LPIPS ↑) for different attacks measured on DiffusionDB dataset. Lower-left is better; LFM variants sit on the Pareto front for all methods except Gaussian Shading 10 1 10 0 10 1 10 2

> Attack time, s
> 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9
> TPR@0.01%FPR
> Adversarial Embedding WMRemovalAttack DIP Diffusion Regeneration Diffusion Rinsing
> Latent Frequency Masking Gaussian Latent Frequency Masking Diffusion
> Unmarker WMForger SADRE
> PSNR 13 PSNR 22 PSNR 32

Fig. 5. Average attack performance vs execution time. The size of the dot represents the average PSNR on the DiffusionDB dataset 

in some parts of the image. For the presented image, only our method is able to erase the watermark information. 

D. Ablation Study 

We perform an ablation study on all of the steps of the proposed algorithm on the DiffusionDB dataset to assess their importance. Since the algorithm is composed of consecutive transformations, i.e., VAE, FFT, and masking, we perform attacks with one or more of these transformations disabled. We use Tree-Ring watermark and set β = 0 . Results are presented in Table II. All variants of the attack with excluded steps fail to erase the watermarking information, even though some of them show better PSNR scores. We conclude that all steps of the algorithm are necessary for watermark removal. 

TABLE II ABLATION RESULTS , VAE REPRESENTS ONLY THE ENCODER AND 

DECODER STEPS WITHOUT ANY MASKING , VAE + M ASKING : MASKING PERFORMED IN SPATIAL DOMAIN WITHOUT FFT STEP , FFT + M ASKING : 

> FREQUENCY MASKING IS PERFORMED ON IMAGES WITHOUT

ENCODER AND DECODER STEPS , VAE + FFT + M ASKING : FULL ALGORITHM 

Attack TPR@1%FPR PSNR VAE 1.0 33.1 VAE + Masking 1.0 23.7 FFT + Masking 0.995 11.4 VAE + FFT + Masking (Gaussian) 0.001 19.4 VAE + FFT + Masking (Diffusion) 0.385 28.7 

VI. D ISCUSSION AND LIMITATIONS 

In this paper, we propose a novel attack on watermarks for diffusion-generated images. The method operates by replacing selected Fourier coefficients in the VAE latent representation and supports Gaussian and diffusion-regeneration replacement strategies. By modifying only selected frequency coefficients of the VAE latent representation, Latent Frequency Masking can substantially reduce watermark detectability while preserv-ing most of the visual content of the original image. The Gaus-sian replacement variant is particularly efficient, requiring only VAE encoding and decoding together with Fourier transforms. The diffusion-regeneration variant improves image quality in several settings by using an image-adaptive replacement latent, although its effectiveness depends on whether regeneration itself suppresses the target watermark. The experiments reveal that Tree-Ring, RingID, Stable Signature, MaXsive, and METR are vulnerable to Latent Frequency Masking under suitable mask and replacement pa-rameters. In contrast, Gaussian Shading is significantly harder to remove with partial masking, which is consistent with Watermarked Image (Tree-Ring)  Gaussian Noise  Diffusion Regeneration 

Watermark is readable 

> Diffusion Rinsing

Watermark erased      

> Adv. Embedding
> UnMarker SADRE WMForger WM Removal Attack Latent Frequency Masking (ours) Fig. 6. Examples of a Tree-Ring-watermarked image subjected to different attacks. The prompt is sampled from the DiffusionDB database.

its design: watermark information is distributed throughout the latent rather than concentrated in a localized spectral region. This suggests that localizing watermark information in predictable latent-frequency regions may create an exploitable weakness, while distributed embedding can improve resistance to this class of attacks. The proposed attack has several limitations. First, our mask selection procedure uses search over a small parameter space and therefore may not be optimal for an adversary with a very strict query budget. Second, the attack assumes access to a compatible latent diffusion autoencoder, which is realistic for many open generative pipelines but may not hold for propri-etary systems. Finally, our theoretical bound characterizes the distortion introduced by the latent modification, but does not by itself guarantee watermark removal; removal depends on how each watermarking scheme stores and detects its signal. From a defensive perspective, the findings indicate that wa-termark evaluation should include latent-space and frequency-space attacks in addition to standard image distortions. Robust watermarking schemes should avoid placing most of the watermark evidence in compact, predictable latent-frequency regions. Promising directions include detector designs that remain sensitive after partial latent replacement, and training procedures that explicitly include Latent Frequency Masking as an adversarial transformation. VII. C ONCLUSION 

In conclusion, we introduced Latent Frequency Masking, a simple and efficient attack for evaluating the robustness of invisible watermarks in diffusion-generated images. Across multiple watermarking schemes, LFM achieves a favorable trade-off between watermark removal, perceptual quality, and computational cost, exposing weaknesses that are not captured by conventional robustness tests. We hope these results encour-age stronger evaluation protocols and more robust watermark designs for generative image provenance. ACKNOWLEDGMENT 

The work of K. Abud, A. Yakushev, A. Akimenkov, D. Obydenkov, Y. Markin and A. Antsiferova was supported by a grant, provided by the Ministry of Economic Development of the Russian Federation (agreement dated June 20, 2025 No. 139-15-2025-011, identifier 000000C313925P4G0002). The research was carried out using the MSU-270 supercomputer of Lomonosov Moscow State University. REFERENCES [1] C. Zheng, C. Lin, Z. Zhao, H. Wang, X. Guo, S. Liu, and C. Shen, “Breaking semantic artifacts for generalized ai-generated image detec-tion,” Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , vol. 37, pp. 59 570–59 596, 2024. [2] X. Zhao, S. Gunn, M. Christ, J. Fairoze, A. Fabrega, N. Carlini, S. Garg, S. Hong, M. Nasr, F. Tramer, S. Jha, L. Li, Y.-X. Wang, and D. Song, “Sok: Watermarking for ai-generated content,” in 2025 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP) , 2025, pp. 2621–2639. [3] A. Poljicak, L. Mandic, and D. Agic, “Discrete fourier transform–based watermarking method with an optimal implementation radius,” Journal of Electronic Imaging , vol. 20, no. 3, pp. 033 008–033 008, 2011. [4] A. Al-Haj, “Combined dwt-dct digital image watermarking,” Journal of computer science , vol. 3, no. 9, pp. 740–746, 2007. [5] M. Islam, A. Roy, and R. H. Laskar, “Svm-based robust image wa-termarking technique in lwt domain using different sub-bands,” Neural Computing and Applications , vol. 32, no. 5, pp. 1379–1403, 2020. [6] J. Zhu, R. Kaplan, J. Johnson, and L. Fei-Fei, “Hidden: Hiding data with deep networks,” in Proceedings of the European conference on computer vision (ECCV) , 2018, pp. 657–672. [7] R. Ma, M. Guo, Y. Hou, F. Yang, Y. Li, H. Jia, and X. Xie, “Towards blind watermarking: Combining invertible and non-invertible mecha-nisms,” in Proceedings of the 30th ACM International Conference on Multimedia , 2022, pp. 1532–1542. [8] J. Huang, T. Luo, L. Li, G. Yang, H. Xu, and C.-C. Chang, “Arwgan: Attention-guided robust image watermarking model based on gan,” IEEE Transactions on Instrumentation and Measurement , vol. 72, pp. 1–17, 2023. [9] K. A. Zhang, L. Xu, A. Cuesta-Infante, and K. Veeramachaneni, “Robust invisible video watermarking with attention,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1909.01285 , 2019. [10] P. Fernandez, H. Elsahar, I. Z. Yalniz, and A. Mourachko, “Video seal: Open and efficient video watermarking,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.09492 , 2024. [11] T. Souˇ cek, P. Fernandez, H. Elsahar, S.-A. Rebuffi, V. Lacatusu, T. Tran, T. Sander, and A. Mourachko, “Pixel seal: Adversarial-only training for invisible image and video watermarking,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2512.16874 , 2025. [12] H. Guo, Q. Zhang, J. Luo, F. Guo, W. Zhang, X. Su, and M. Li, “Prac-tical deep dispersed watermarking with synchronization and fusion,” in 

Proceedings of the 31st ACM international conference on multimedia ,2023, pp. 7922–7932. [13] R. Hu, J. Zhang, S. Zhao, N. Lukas, J. Li, Q. Guo, H. Qiu, and T. Zhang, “Mask image watermarking,” in The Thirty-ninth Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems , 2025. [14] P. Fernandez, T. Souˇ cek, N. Jovanovi´ c, H. Elsahar, S.-A. Rebuffi, V. Lacatusu, T. Tran, and A. Mourachko, “Geometric image synchronization with deep watermarking,” 2025. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.15208 [15] Y. Wen, J. Kirchenbauer, J. Geiping, and T. Goldstein, “Tree-ring watermarks: Fingerprints for diffusion images that are invisible and robust,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.20030 , 2023. [16] H. Ci, P. Yang, Y. Song, and M. Z. Shou, “Ringid: Rethinking tree-ring watermarking for enhanced multi-key identification,” in European conference on computer vision . Springer, 2024, pp. 338–354. [17] A. Varlamov, D. Diatlova, and E. Spirin, “Metr: Image water-marking with large number of unique messages,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.08340 , 2024. [18] P.-Y. Mao, C.-C. Tsai, and C.-S. Lu, “Maxsive: High-capacity and robust training-free generative image watermarking in diffusion models,” in 

Proceedings of the 33rd ACM International Conference on Multimedia ,2025, pp. 11 443–11 452. [19] Z. Yang, K. Zeng, K. Chen, H. Fang, W. Zhang, and N. Yu, “Gaussian shading: Provable performance-lossless image watermarking for diffu-sion models,” in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition , 2024, pp. 12 162–12 171. [20] P. Fernandez, G. Couairon, H. J´ egou, M. Douze, and T. Furon, “The stable signature: Rooting watermarks in latent diffusion models,” in 

Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision , 2023, pp. 22 466–22 477. [21] B. An, M. Ding, T. Rabbani, A. Agrawal, Y. Xu, C. Deng, S. Zhu, A. Mohamed, Y. Wen, T. Goldstein et al. , “Waves: Benchmarking the robustness of image watermarks,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.08573 ,2024. [22] P. Yang, H. Ci, Y. Song, and M. Z. Shou, “Steganalysis on digital watermarking: Is your defense truly impervious?” 2024. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.09026 [23] X. Zhao, K. Zhang, Z. Su, S. Vasan, I. Grishchenko, C. Kruegel, G. Vigna, Y.-X. Wang, and L. Li, “Invisible image watermarks are provably removable using generative AI,” in The Thirty-eighth Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems , 2024. [Online]. Available: https://openreview.net/forum?id=7hy5fy2OC6 [24] M. Saberi, V. S. Sadasivan, K. Rezaei, A. Kumar, A. Chegini, W. Wang, and S. Feizi, “Robustness of ai-image detectors: Fundamental limits and practical attacks,” in ICLR , 2024. [25] H. Liang, T. Li, and J. Sun, “A baseline method for removing invisible image watermarks using deep image prior,” 2025. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.13998 [26] I. Alam, M. T. Islam, and S. S. Woo, “Saliency-aware diffusion reconstruction for effective invisible watermark removal,” in Companion Proceedings of the ACM on Web Conference 2025 , ser. WWW ’25. New York, NY, USA: Association for Computing Machinery, 2025, p. 849–853. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/3701716.3715519 [27] N. Lukas, A. Diaa, L. Fenaux, and F. Kerschbaum, “Leveraging optimization for adaptive attacks on image watermarks,” in The Twelfth International Conference on Learning Representations , 2024. [Online]. Available: https://openreview.net/forum?id=O9PArxKLe1 [28] A. Kassis and U. Hengartner, “Unmarker: a universal attack on defensive image watermarking,” in 2025 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP) . IEEE, 2025, pp. 2602–2620. [29] Y. Hu, Z. Jiang, M. Guo, and N. Gong, “Stable signature is unstable: Removing image watermark from diffusion models,” 2024. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07145 [30] A. M¨ uller, D. Lukovnikov, J. Thietke, A. Fischer, and E. Quiring, “Black-box forgery attacks on semantic watermarks for diffusion mod-els,” in Proceedings of the Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition Conference (CVPR) , June 2025, pp. 20 937–20 946. [31] T. Souˇ cek, S.-A. Rebuffi, P. Fernandez, N. Jovanovi´ c, H. Elsahar, V. Lacatusu, T. Tran, and A. Mourachko, “Transferable black-box one-shot forging of watermarks via image preference models,” in Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , 2025. [32] Z. Wang, A. C. Bovik, H. R. Sheikh, and E. P. Simoncelli, “Image quality assessment: from error visibility to structural similarity,” IEEE transactions on image processing , vol. 13, no. 4, pp. 600–612, 2004. [33] R. Zhang, P. Isola, A. A. Efros, E. Shechtman, and O. Wang, “The unreasonable effectiveness of deep features as a perceptual metric,” in 

Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recognition , 2018, pp. 586–595. [34] H. Gouk, E. Frank, B. Pfahringer, and M. J. Cree, “Regularisation of neural networks by enforcing lipschitz continuity,” Machine Learning ,vol. 110, no. 2, pp. 393–416, 2021. [35] H. Kim, G. Papamakarios, and A. Mnih, “The lipschitz constant of self-attention,” in International Conference on Machine Learning . PMLR, 2021, pp. 5562–5571. [36] V. Castin, P. Ablin, and G. Peyr´ e, “How smooth is attention?” arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.14820 , 2023. [37] Z. J. Wang, E. Montoya, D. Munechika, H. Yang, B. Hoover, and D. H. Chau, “DiffusionDB: A large-scale prompt gallery dataset for text-to-image generative models,” arXiv:2210.14896 [cs] , 2022. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2210.14896 [38] T.-Y. Lin, M. Maire, S. Belongie, L. Bourdev, R. Girshick, J. Hays, P. Perona, D. Ramanan, C. L. Zitnick, and P. Doll´ ar, “Microsoft coco: Common objects in context,” 2015. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0312 [39] R. Rombach, A. Blattmann, D. Lorenz, P. Esser, and B. Ommer, “ High-Resolution Image Synthesis with Latent Diffusion Models ,” in 2022 IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) . Los Alamitos, CA, USA: IEEE Computer Society, Jun. 2022, pp. 10 674–10 685. [Online]. Available: https: //doi.ieeecomputersociety.org/10.1109/CVPR52688.2022.01042 [40] B. F. Labs, “Flux,” https://github.com/black-forest-labs/flux, 2024. [41] J. Wang, K. C. Chan, and C. C. Loy, “Exploring clip for assessing the look and feel of images,” in Proceedings of the AAAI conference on artificial intelligence , vol. 37, no. 2, 2023, pp. 2555–2563.