Preprint Under Review
MARCO: THE RADIOACTIVE WATERMARK FOR PRO-
TEIN GENERATIVE MODELS
Huajie Chen†, Xin Guo†, Yuchen Shi†, Yuchen Zhong†, Minhui Xue‡, Chi Liu†,
Congcong Zhu†, Kun Gao†, Minfeng Qi†, & Tianqing Zhu† ∗
ABSTRACT
Protein Generative Models (PGMs) have revolutionized structural biology by en-
abling the design of complex 3D protein structures from sequence data. However,
this breakthrough introduces a dual-use challenge, exposing high-value PGMs
to economic risks like unauthorized model extraction and biosecurity threats
such as biohazard synthesis. To mitigate these threats, we propose MARCO
(CONFORMATION WATERMARK), the first radioactive watermarking framework
specifically tailored for PGMs. MARCO establishes a Dual-Layer defense that
simultaneously protects intellectual property and ensures the forensic traceability
of potential biosecurity misuses. (i) To preserve efficiency, MARCO iteratively
embeds watermarks during diffusion reverse denoising via an auxiliary encoder-
decoder, allowing the original PGM parameters to remain frozen for broad com-
patibility. (ii) To preserve biophysical fidelity and maximize robustness, we em-
ploy specialized loss functions targeting Cα-atom pairwise distances and torsion
angles (ψ, ϕ) within an adversarial training framework integrated with stochastic
attack simulations. (iii) Crucially, MARCO exhibits “radioactivity” where the wa-
termark automatically transfers to the outputs of any pirate models trained on the
watermarked data, effectively countering model extraction attacks. Comprehen-
sive experiments demonstrate that MARCO achieves superior fidelity and robust-
ness while successfully validating watermark transferability.
1
INTRODUCTION
Protein
generative
models
(PGMs),
including
AlphaFold
Abramson
et
al.
(2024)
and
RoseTTAFold Baek et al. (2021), have transformed structural biology by predicting 3D structures
from sequences Baker & Sali (2001). Recognized by the 2024 Nobel Prize in Chemistry, these
advances also enable precise de novo design and accelerate the development of therapeutics and
biomaterials beyond the reach of traditional screening Luo et al. (2021).
Their rapid deployment, however, creates a dual-use challenge. Open access fosters innovation
but may enable malicious users to engineer enhanced pathogens or toxins Wang et al. (2025a),
prompting organizations including OpenAI, Anthropic, and Google DeepMind to highlight biose-
curity risks Wentzel et al. (2026). Meanwhile, extracting proprietary models Chen et al. (2025)
threatens commercial advantages and investment in drug discovery Zhang et al. (2025a). PGMs
therefore require tailored protection.
Although watermarking is established for large language models Kirchenbauer et al. (2023) and
diffusion-based image generators Fernandez et al. (2023a), proteins impose distinct biophysical and
geometric constraints. Embedded signals in coordinates or amino acid sequences must preserve
conformation—and thus folding stability and binding affinity Jumper et al. (2021). Because protein
structures occupy continuous space and are invariant to rigid transformations, robust watermarks Li
et al. (2021) must also withstand SE(3) operations and conformational flexibility. This requires
geometry-aware encoding in invariant features such as torsion angles or residue-residue distance
maps, rather than simple coordinate noise Mi˜n´an et al. (2025).
∗†Faculty of Data Science, City University of Macau. ‡CSIRO and Responsible AI Research (RAIR) Centre,
Adelaide University.
1
arXiv:2610.08316v1  [cs.CR]  6 Oct 2026


Preprint Under Review
Our Work. We introduce MARCO (CONFORMATION WATERMARK), the first generalized ra-
dioactive watermarking framework compatible with contemporary PGM architectures. MARCO
adds robust signatures to high-fidelity structures from pretrained models without fine-tuning or re-
training. Its “radioactive” watermark transfers to pirate models trained on protected structures, pre-
serving data provenance.
We study three questions: RQ1) Can a general watermarking framework adapt to existing PGMs
without weight fine-tuning or retraining? RQ2) Can it preserve biological fidelity while resisting
common structural perturbations? RQ3) Can the watermark propagate to derivative models trained
on protected data, establishing a “radioactive” chain of custody?
A1) Contemporary diffusion-based PGMs generate protein backbones as rigid-body sequences de-
fined by translations and rotations Baek et al. (2021); Lin et al. (2022); Yim et al. (2023c;a).
MARCO perturbs both components during reverse diffusion, steering generation toward a wa-
termarked conformation at inference time without retraining.
A2) MARCO combines a joint
encoder-decoder and discriminator Goodfellow et al. (2020) with a frozen PGM. The encoder wa-
termarks intermediate diffusion predictions under fidelity constraints; the decoder recovers signals
from stochastically distorted structures; and the discriminator distinguishes clean from watermarked
structures. Their competition keeps perturbations biophysically indistinguishable from natural pro-
teins. A3) By intervening throughout reverse diffusion rather than watermarking a static structure,
MARCO shifts the output distribution Sander et al. (2024). A pirate model trained on these samples
learns the biased distribution, so its outputs inherit the watermark and remain traceable to the source.
Our contributions are listed as follows:
• We propose the first “radioactive” watermarking framework tailored to the biophysical and geo-
metric constraints of PGMs with specifically designed biological loss terms.
• MARCO embeds high-fidelity structures with signatures robust to SE(3) transformations and
malicious attacks; surrogate models trained on protected data inherit the signal, enabling persistent
intellectual-property protection.
• MARCO is an efficient, architecture-agnostic, plug-and-play module that requires no PGM weight
fine-tuning.
2
PRELIMINARIES AND RELATED WORK
2.1
PROTEIN GENERATIVE MODELS
Overview. Models such as RFdiffusion Watson et al. (2023), ESMFold Lin et al. (2022), and Al-
phaFold 3 Abramson et al. (2024) learn a joint distribution pθ(X, S) over sequence S and structure
X. A structure comprises N rigid frames X = {(Ri, xi)}N
i=1, where Ri ∈SO(3) is the backbone
orientation and xi ∈R3 the Cα position. They enforce SE(3)-equivariance, Θ(g · X) = g · Θ(X),
for any global transformation g Fuchs et al. (2020), making predictions coordinate-frame inde-
pendent and supporting physical validity and conformational generalization. SO(3) is the spe-
cial orthogonal group of 3D rotations, SO(3) = R ∈R3×3 | R⊤R = I, det(R) = 1, whose rota-
tions preserve distances, angles, and orientation. SE(3) is the group of 3D rigid transformations,
SE(3) = (R, x) | R ∈SO(3), x ∈R3, which maps a ∈R3 to Ra + x and has the homogeneous
form X =

R
x
0
1

, where SO(3) represents rotation and x translation.
Learning Objective. Most models sample through denoising diffusion Ho et al. (2020) or flow
matching Lipman et al. (2023), whose forward process corrupts X0 into noise XT via an SDE or
interpolant. RFdiffusion Watson et al. (2023), for example, recovers X0 = (R0, x0) from Xt by
minimizing weighted translation and rotation errors:
L = Et,X0,η
h
wtrans(t)∥ˆx0 −x0∥2 + wrot(t)∥ˆR0 −R0∥2
F
i
,
(1)
where the terms measure Cα coordinate error and the Frobenius distance between orientation matri-
ces, respectively.
2


Preprint Under Review
Sampling. At step t, Θ predicts the clean structure from Xt: ( ˆR0, ˆx0) = Θ(Xt, t, S). This iterative
refinement improves topological coherence. The sampler computes the posterior mean for Xt−1,
with linear-interpolation translational mean
µx =
√¯αt−1βt
1 −¯αt
ˆx0 +
√αt(1 −¯αt−1)
1 −¯αt
xt
(2)
and rotational mean obtained by geodesic interpolation between Rt and ˆR0 on SO(3). Gaussian
noise yields xt−1 = µx + σtη, where η ∼N(0, I), while rotation updates as
Rt−1 = Rt · Exp

ct · log

R⊤
t ˆR0

+ σt · ξ

,
(3)
where ct is the posterior coefficient, σt the noise scale, and ξ ∼N(0, I). The prediction becomes
ˆXprev
0
at the next step. At t = 0, a sequence design module such as ProteinMPNN typically optimizes
S for the final backbone X0.
2.2
WATERMARKING DIFFUSION MODELS
Diffusion watermarking follows two paradigms: inference-time injection and model-time imprinting.
Both bias the generated distribution pθ(x0) to make outputs verifiable while preserving fidelity.
Inference-Time Injection. Tree-Ring Watermarking Wen et al. (2023) embeds a pattern mTR in a
frequency ring M of the initial noise xT , exploiting low-frequency control of global image layout:
F(x′
T ) = F(xT ) ⊙(1 −M) + mTR ⊙M
(4)
Detection recovers ˆxT through DDIM inversion and tests for mTR. Gaussian Shading Yang et al.
(2024) instead uses optimal transport to move xT toward a watermarked latent region, avoiding
inversion during detection.
Model-Time Imprinting. Stable Signature Fernandez et al. (2023b) fine-tunes the VAE decoder
Dϕ to embed a robust, invisible signature w in every image, balancing fidelity and detection:
Ltotal = Lperceptual(x, xw) + λLdetect(E(xw), w),
(5)
where E extracts the watermark. ProMark Asnani et al. (2024) uses learnable prompt tokens to
trigger watermarked outputs, whereas rejection-sampling watermarking Zhao et al. (2024) retains
outputs satisfying h(x) ∈K.
Limitations in Watermarking Protein Structures. Image methods Zhao et al. (2023); Huang
et al. (2024); Liu et al. (2023); Ci et al. (2025) assume fixed 2D grids, image-specific latents or
text conditioning, and perceptual invisibility, so they do not transfer directly to variable-length 3D
proteins. Protein watermarks must respect SE(3) symmetry and preserve inter-residue distances,
torsion angles, stereochemistry, folding stability, and function. FoldMark Zhang et al. (2025b) ap-
plies watermark-conditioned LoRA fine-tuning to PGMs, but modifies model weights and does not
sufficiently constrain the predicted structures biologically. SynthIDBio Stutz et al. (2026) fine-tunes
the PGM and trains a watermark detector with a fidelity loss term and a watermarking loss term.
However, SynthIDBio does not support multi-bit watermarking, and there is no evidence that such
design can withstand adversarial attacks.
3
THREAT MODEL
We consider two parties: the victim and the adversary. Based on this setting, we define MARCO’s
design properties in Appendix A.
The Victim. The victim, typically a pharmaceutical company or research laboratory, develops or
hosts a proprietary PGM Θ (e.g., RFdiffusion) trained on valuable structural data. It embeds a
recoverable watermark w in generated structures ˆX ∼Θ(·), producing ˜X such that D( ˜X) ≈w.
The victim has white-box access to Θ, including its parameters θ, activations, and gradients. It also
has sufficient computing resources for biophysical validation through forward-folding simulations
and energy minimization.
3


Preprint Under Review
Figure 1: MARCO training. i) PGM prediction: The frozen PGM Θ predicts a clean structure
ˆX0 from noisy state Xt and sequence S. ii) Watermark embedding: Encoder E embeds w through
geometric perturbations, producing ˜X0 and steering the generation trajectory. iii) Watermark ex-
traction: A Bernoulli-controlled attack layer produces ˜XA, from which decoder D recovers ˆw for
robustness. iv) Adversarial training: Discriminator C distinguishes ˆX0 from ˜X0, while E learns
biophysically imperceptible perturbations that deceive C.
The Adversary. The adversary is a malicious user or competitor who exploits model outputs while
hiding their provenance to infringe intellectual property or evade biosecurity screening for restricted
agents such as toxins. It transforms a watermarked structure as X′ = A( ˜X). An attack succeeds
only if i) detection fails, D(X′)̸ ≈w, and ii) X′ retains the structural integrity and biological
function of ˜X. The adversary knows the watermarking algorithm and model architecture, but not
the victim’s training data, training algorithm, or watermark parameters. Its access to the victim
model is black-box and query-only, but it has unlimited access to watermarked structures. It has
standard computing resources: an A100 GPU with 80GB VRAM and 64GB RAM suffices to fine-
tune AlphaFold2, and molecular-modeling software such as Rosetta and PyMOL1.
Adaptive Attacker. An adaptive adversary knows MARCO fully and uses optimization to erase its
watermark while preserving fidelity. It may use OpenMM molecular dynamics Eastman et al. (2013)
or Rosetta Relax Tyka et al. (2011) to drive structures toward local thermodynamic minima. With
white-box access to its pirate model, the adversary may also use Differentially Private Stochastic
Gradient Descent (DPSGD) Abadi et al. (2016) to scrub the watermark during training. Its calibrated
gradient noise prevents the PGM from retaining the watermarked distributional features. It may also
forge a watermark on the structures Chen et al. (2024); Zhang et al. (2021) to obscure ownership
verification.
4
MARCO METHOD
4.1
OVERVIEW
We introduce MARCO, a watermarking framework for Protein Generative Models (PGMs) that for-
mulates watermarking as multi-objective optimization on the rigid-body SE(3) manifold using an
adversarially trained encoder-decoder network. At each denoising step, the encoder embeds the
1https://rosettacommons.org/, https://pymol.org/
4


Preprint Under Review
Algorithm 1: Training Process of MARCO
Data: Frozen PGM Θ; encoder E; decoder D; discriminator C; attack simulator A; training structures and sequences; watermark w
Result: Trained watermark encoder E and decoder D
Freeze Θ;
while training has not converged do
Sample a noisy structure and use Θ to predict its clean backbone;
Use E to embed w into the prediction with a timestep-aware geometric perturbation;
Apply a stochastic simulated attack and use D to recover the watermark;
Update E and D to balance watermark recovery, structural fidelity, and covertness;
Update C to distinguish clean predictions from watermarked ones;
end
return E, D
Algorithm 2: Evaluation Process of MARCO
Data: PGM Θ; trained encoder E and decoder D; protein sequence S; owner and model identities; watermark length; authoritative
ledger; suspect structure X
Result: Watermarked structure ˜X; recovered watermark ˆw; detection decision dwm
/* Provenance-Backed Watermark Generation
*/
Derive a target watermark w of the specified length from the model identity;
Timestamp and register the ownership record with the authoritative ledger;
/* Watermarked Structure Generation
*/
Initialize a random noisy structure;
foreach denoising step do
Use Θ to predict the clean protein structure;
Use E to embed w through a timestep-aware geometric perturbation;
Advance the denoising trajectory using the watermarked prediction;
end
Set ˜X to the final generated structure;
/* Watermark Validation
*/
Use D to recover ˆw from the suspect structure X;
Compare ˆw with w using a statistical confidence test;
Set dwm according to whether the detection threshold is met;
return ˜X, ˆw, dwm
watermark into the predicted protein backbone, steering diffusion toward a verifiable “watermark
manifold”. A discriminator penalizes distributional divergence so that watermarked structures re-
main biophysically indistinguishable from natural ones. During training, a stochastic attack layer
encourages redundant, persistent features that survive geometric perturbations and malicious attacks,
while the decoder recovers the signature from the distorted structures to reinforce robustness. For
flow-matching and deterministic models (e.g. ESMFold), MARCO can also provide robust water-
mark with fewer steps of perturbations. In Appendix B, we prove that MARCO provides certified
robustness.
4.2
TRAINING MARCO
As shown in Algorithm 1 and Figure 1, MARCO jointly optimizes a watermark encoder E, decoder
D, and discriminator C with a frozen PGM Θ in four phases: i) PGM prediction, ii) watermark
embedding, iii) watermark extraction, and iv) adversarial training.
Protein Generative Model Prediction. The forward process converts a ground-truth structure X0
into Xt at timestep t, from which Θ estimates the clean baseline ˆX0 = ( ˆR0, ˆx0) using Xt, t, and
sequence S (Subsection 2.1).
Watermark Embedding. The encoder E embeds w into this estimate through residual learning,
predicting a perturbation field (∆R0, ∆x0) rather than absolute watermarked coordinates:
(∆R0, ∆x0) = E( ˆR0, ˆx0, w)
(6)
The watermark is embedded in ˆx0 by adding ∆x0 under a temporal scaling schedule:
˜x0 = ˆx0 + cos(π(T −t)
2T
)∆x0
(7)
The cosine schedule anneals the perturbation magnitude with timestep t.
5


Preprint Under Review
Figure 2: MARCO evaluation. i) Watermarked structure generation: At each denoising step,
watermark perturbations are applied to the PGM’s clean predictions, yielding a fully watermarked
structure ˜X. ii) Watermark validation: The decoder recovers ˆw from a suspect structure and sta-
tistically compares it with the original watermark. Successful verification confirms provenance and
identifies the embedded user.
Because SO(3) is a non-linear manifold, element-wise addition violates rotational orthogonality.
We instead define ∆R0 ∈R3 in the tangent space so(3), with ∥∆R0∥giving the angular magni-
tude in radians, and map it onto the manifold via the matrix exponential with the same temporal
modulation:
∆R0 = exp(cos(π(T −t)
2T
) · ∆R0)
(8)
The perturbed rotation is then obtained by matrix multiplication:
˜R0 = ˆR0∆R0
(9)
The watermarked estimates ( ˜R0, ˜x0) replace ( ˆR0, ˆx0) in the standard diffusion updates (Subsec-
tion 2.1 and Equation 3), propagating the watermark to Xt−1.
To preserve structural fidelity, we minimize the translational and rotational deviations ∥ˆxi
0 −˜xi
0∥2
and ∥ˆRi
0−˜Ri
0∥2. Under Equation 6, this reduces to constraining the predicted perturbations through:
Lwm = 1
N
N
X
i=1
∥∆Ri
0∥+ ∥∆xi
0∥
(10)
Minimizing Lwm constrains the geometric distance between ˆX0 and ˜X0, preserving biophysical
consistency.
We further promote embedding fidelity with two novel losses: the distance matrix loss Ldm and
torsion angle loss Ltor.
The distance matrix loss enforces the preservation of global structural topology by penalizing devi-
ations in pairwise Cα distances:
Ldm =
1
N 2
N
X
i=1
N
X
j=1
(∥ˆxi
0 −ˆxj
0∥−∥˜xi
0 −˜xj
0∥)2
(11)
Minimizing this term preserves the clean backbone’s internal organization and relative atomic posi-
tions, preventing global fold distortion.
6


Preprint Under Review
The torsion angle loss Ltor constrains local geometry:
Ltor =
1
N −2
N−1
X
i=2
[1 −cos(ˆϕi −˜ϕi) + 1 −cos( ˆψi −˜ψi)],
(12)
where (ˆϕi, ˆψi) and (˜ϕi, ˜ψi) are the clean and watermarked backbone dihedral angles, computed us-
ing standard protocols Watson et al. (2023). The loss penalizes sterically implausible conformations
to preserve local structural integrity.
Watermark Extraction. Before extraction, an attack layer A simulates adversarial conditions
through manipulations such as rotation, cropping, and noise addition, producing ˜XA = A( ˜X0, b).
For b ∼Bern(0.5), the attack is applied when b = 1; otherwise, the structure is unchanged.
The decoder D recovers ˆw from the potentially distorted ˜XA using the extraction loss:
Lext = −1
l
l
X
i=1
wi log( ˆwi) + (1 −wi) log(1 −ˆwi)
(13)
Minimizing Lext enables robust recovery from both pristine and structurally compromised proteins.
Adversarial Training. A discriminator C, trained jointly with E and D, minimizes the classification
error between clean and watermarked structures in an adversarial minimax game:
LC = −
 log C( ˆX0) + log
 1 −C( ˜X0)

(14)
The encoder simultaneously minimizes an adversarial loss to deceive C:
Ladv = −log
 C( ˜X0)

(15)
Thus, LC trains the discriminator to separate the distributions, while Ladv trains the encoder to make
˜X0 statistically indistinguishable from ˆX0.
The overall MARCO training loss is
L = λ1Lwm + λ2Ldm + λ3Ltor + λ4Lext + λ5Ladv.
(16)
4.3
EVALUATING MARCO
As shown in Algorithm 2 and Figure 2, MARCO establishes a provenance-backed watermark, gen-
erates a watermarked protein structure, and validates the watermark. To prevent ownership claims
based on forged watermarks, MARCO cryptographically timestamps and registers the model iden-
tity and timestamp with a trustworthy ledger; unregistered watermarks cannot establish ownership.
Watermarked Protein Structure Generation. Starting from standard Gaussian noise XT and
protein sequence S, the reverse diffusion process (t = T →1) uses Θ to estimate a clean baseline
ˆX0 at each step. Encoder E injects perturbations (∆R0, ∆x0) to produce ( ˜R0, ˜x0), which guides
the transition to Xt−1. The process yields the releasable watermarked structure ˜X.
Watermark Validation. The victim uses decoder D to recover ˆw from a suspect structure X and
counts the k matching bits between ˆw and the original watermark w. A one-sided Z-test assesses
significance against random coincidence using z = (k −µ)/σ, where µ = 0.5l and σ = 0.5
√
l
are the mean and standard deviation for a random binary sequence of length l with p = 0.5. The
threshold ˆz = 3.0 gives a false positive rate of ≤10−3. MARCO sets dwm = 1 if z ≥ˆz and 0
otherwise, returning both dwm and ˆw.
5
EVALUATION
The experimental settings and the other experiments about robustness, radioactivity, robustness and
ablation study are presented in Appendix C and Appendix D.
7


Preprint Under Review
(a) Θ: RFDiffusion
(b) Θ: ESMFold
(c) Θ: Chroma
(d) Θ: FrameDiff
(e) Θ: FrameFlow
(f) Θ: FoldFlow2
Figure 3: Evaluation of Fidelity of PGM Watermarking Methods.
5.1
FIDELITY
We compare MARCO with four baselines using Cα-RMSD, Normalized BLOSUM62 score, Bit
Accuracy (BA), and Detection Rate (DR) across six pre-trained PGMs with official weights and
published baseline hyperparameters. We set the watermark length to l = 64, providing a 264 iden-
tification space for robust validation, and generate 1000 clean–watermarked structure pairs ( ˆX, ˜X).
Results compare these structures and the ground-truth and recovered watermarks (w, ˆw).
As shown in Figure 3, MARCO leads most metrics, achieving the lowest RMSD, near-perfect BLO-
SUM62 scores, BA > 0.95, and DR = 1.0 without attacks. Image-domain baselines lack protein-
specific thermodynamic constraints and therefore compromise fidelity and robustness by distorting
molecular conformations. FoldMark is the strongest baseline, but MARCO’s design performs better.
Moreover, the baselines require PGM fine-tuning, whereas MARCO is a plug-and-play module that
leaves the backbone model unchanged. Their partial watermark recovery also remains substantially
less accurate than MARCO’s, especially under adversarial attacks. The RFDiffusion overlays in Fig-
ure 5 (Appendix D) show strong alignment between clean and watermarked structures, confirming
that MARCO preserves native conformations with minimal geometric alteration.
5.2
ROBUSTNESS
MARCO vs. Conformational Manipulations. We evaluate MARCO against random rotation,
cropping, and Gaussian noise injection. Random Rotation: For X = {(Ri, xi)}N
i=1, we sample a
global rotation Q ∼Haar(SO(3)), the uniform distribution over SO(3), and apply x′
i = Q(xi −
c) + c and R′
i = QRi, where c is the geometric center. Cropping: We remove a contiguous 30% of
the backbone from either end. Gaussian Noise Injection: For x ∈RN×3, we sample χ ∼N(0, I),
χ ∈RN×3, and add it to x.
As shown in Figure 4 and Figure 6 (Appendix D), MARCO significantly outperforms all four base-
lines in Bit Accuracy (BA) and Detection Rate (DR), maintaining BA > 0.90 and DR > 0.99 under
every perturbation. Rotation has relatively little effect, whereas cropping and noise sharply degrade
8


Preprint Under Review
(a) Θ : RFDiff, Rotation
(b) Θ : RFDiff, Cropping
(c) Θ : RFDiff, Noise Addition
(d) Θ : ESMFold, Rotation
(e) Θ : ESMFold, Cropping
(f) Θ : ESMFold, Noise Addition
(g) Θ : Chroma, Rotation
(h) Θ : Chroma, Cropping
(i) Θ : Chroma, Noise Addition
Figure 4: Part A – Evaluation of Robustness of PGM Watermarking Methods against Confor-
mation Manipulations.
the baselines by removing structural information and globally distorting molecular conformations,
respectively. MARCO’s robustness suggests that the attack layer is critical for learning persistent
features; adversarial training likely also diffuses the watermark throughout the structure to evade the
discriminator and prevent localized failures.
6
DISCUSSION
PGMs face economic and biosecurity threats: extracting proprietary models causes economic loss,
while bypassing safeguards to synthesize toxins or bioweapons risks severe societal harm. MARCO
addresses both with a dual-layer defense that embeds user-specific intellectual property as a water-
mark, serving as both a Digital Rights Management (DRM) tool and a Biological Weapons Conven-
tion (BWC)-compliant digital chain of custody for PGM accountability. MARCO balances fidelity,
preserved by geometric constraints, with robustness, enhanced by the attack layer and extraction
loss; adversarial training reinforces both. Adjusting the loss weights and probability of confor-
mational manipulations tailors this trade-off to specific security requirements. Capacity remains a
performance constraint: the ablation study shows that increasing watermark length l reduces fidelity
and robustness. Choosing an optimal l therefore balances scalable user identification with struc-
tural integrity. Model extraction attacks aim to learn a PGM’s output distribution. MARCO makes
this distribution radioactive through stepwise reverse-diffusion perturbations, and cross-architecture
training experiments confirm that the watermark propagates to pirate models. This radioactivity is
essential for identifying stolen models and validating ownership. In Appendix E, we discuss poten-
tial extensions of MARCO to protein language models and wet-lab verification.
7
CONCLUSION
We propose MARCO, a radioactive watermark designed to efficiently adapt to mainstream Pro-
tein Generative Models without modifying their pre-trained weights. MARCO achieves a critical
balance of fidelity and robustness, generating attack-resilient structures with negligible geometric
deviation from clean predictions. Sequence validation via ProteinMPNN confirms that these struc-
tural watermarks exert minimal influence on the recovered amino acid sequence. Furthermore, the
9


Preprint Under Review
watermark proves robust against conformational manipulations and even adaptive attacks while sup-
porting high-capacity payloads with minimal performance trade-offs. Future work will focus on
further enhancing conformational fidelity and extending the framework’s applicability to a broader
spectrum of generative architectures and other biological modalities.
AI USE STATEMENT
In the preparation of this manuscript, we employed generative AI tools strictly for the purpose of
linguistic refinement. Specifically, these tools were used to check for grammatical errors and to
improve the flow and readability of the text. We affirm that:
• No Content Generation: The core concepts, experimental design, data analysis, and sci-
entific conclusions are entirely the work of the authors.
• No Synthetic Text: No substantial portions of the text were generated by AI. The tools
acted solely as a copy-editing assistant.
• Human Oversight: All suggestions made by the AI were manually reviewed and veri-
fied by the authors, who take full responsibility for the accuracy and integrity of the final
publication.
ETHICS STATEMENT
In conducting this research, we strictly adhered to a “no-harm” principle. Our methodology was de-
signed to protect the copyrights of the model owner and trace biosecurity misuses of protein genera-
tive models in a purely theoretical and isolated context, ensuring that no individuals, organizations,
or operational systems were negatively impacted.
Isolation from Operational Systems. All experiments described in this paper were performed in
a fully offline, local environment. We utilized open-source implementations of dataset distillation
protocols and deployed them on our own hardware. At no point did our method interact with, query,
or stress-test live commercial APIs or external web services. Consequently, this research caused no
service disruption, latency, or financial cost to any model providers or platforms.
Use of Public, Non-Sensitive Data. The evaluation was conducted exclusively using standard,
publicly available academic datasets. We did not harvest data from private users, nor did we target
specific content creators. By relying solely on established benchmarks, we ensured that no personal
data was processed, and no individual’s privacy or intellectual property rights were infringed upon
during the course of this study.
Safe Security Assessment. Our work treats the sensitive information of the protein datasets and the
protein generative models as a mathematical artifact to be analyzed, rather than attacking the infras-
tructure that hosts it. By confining our “red-teaming” efforts to a sandbox environment, we demon-
strate that security vulnerabilities can be identified and documented without risk to the broader
digital ecosystem or its stakeholders.
REPRODUCIBILITY STATEMENT
To promote transparency and reproducibility, we will release artifacts including all the code of
all empirical studies employed in this paper. We currently provide the artifact in the following
anonymized link: https://to_be_released_after_acceptance. All datasets we use
are included in the artifact as they are public accessible.
REFERENCES
Martin Abadi, Andy Chu, Ian Goodfellow, H Brendan McMahan, Ilya Mironov, Kunal Talwar, and
Li Zhang. Deep learning with differential privacy. In Proceedings of the 2016 ACM SIGSAC
conference on computer and communications security, pp. 308–318, 2016.
10


Preprint Under Review
Josh Abramson, Jonas Adler, Jack Dunger, Richard Evans, Tim Green, Alexander Pritzel, Olaf
Ronneberger, Lindsay Willmore, Andrew J. Ballard, Joshua Bambrick, Sebastian W. Bodenstein,
David A. Evans, Chia-Chun Hung, Michael O’Neill, David Reiman, Kathryn Tunyasuvunakool,
Zachary Wu, Akvil˙e ˇZemgulyt˙e, Eirini Arvaniti, Charles Beattie, Ottavia Bertolli, Alex Bridg-
land, Alexey Cherepanov, Miles Congreve, Alexander I. Cowen-Rivers, Andrew Cowie, Michael
Figurnov, Fabian B. Fuchs, Hannah Gladman, Rishub Jain, Yousuf A. Khan, Caroline M. R. Low,
Kuba Perlin, Anna Potapenko, Pascal Savy, Sukhdeep Singh, Adrian Stecula, Ashok Thillaisun-
daram, Catherine Tong, Sergei Yakneen, Ellen D. Zhong, Michal Zielinski, Augustin ˇZ´ıdek, Vic-
tor Bapst, Pushmeet Kohli, Max Jaderberg, Demis Hassabis, and John M. Jumper. Accurate
structure prediction of biomolecular interactions with alphafold 3. Nature, 630(8016):493—-500,
2024. doi: 10.1038/s41586-024-07487-w.
Vishal Asnani, John Collomosse, Tu Bui, Xiaoming Liu, and Shruti Agarwal. Promark: Proactive
diffusion watermarking for causal attribution. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pp. 10802–10811, 2024.
Ziga Avsec, Natasha Latysheva, Jun Cheng, Guido Novati, Kyle R. Taylor, Tom Ward, Clare By-
croft, Lauren Nicolaisen, Eirini Arvaniti, Joshua Pan, Raina Thomas, Vincent Dutordoir, Mat-
teo Perino, Soham De, Alexander Karollus, Adam Gayoso, Toby Sargeant, Anne Mottram,
Lai Hong Wong, Pavol Drot´ar, Adam Kosiorek, Andrew Senior, Richard Tanburn, Taylor Ap-
plebaum, Souradeep Basu, Demis Hassabis, and Pushmeet Kohli. Advancing regulatory vari-
ant effect prediction with alphagenome. Nature, 649(8099):1206–1218, January 2026. ISSN
1476-4687.
doi: 10.1038/s41586-025-10014-0.
URL http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/
s41586-025-10014-0.
Minkyung Baek, Frank DiMaio, Ivan Anishchenko, Justas Dauparas, Sergey Ovchinnikov, Gyu Rie
Lee, Jue Wang, Qian Cong, Lisa N Kinch, R Dustin Schaeffer, et al. Accurate prediction of
protein structures and interactions using a three-track neural network. Science, 373(6557):871–
876, 2021.
David Baker and Andrej Sali. Protein structure prediction and structural genomics. Science, 294
(5540):93–96, 2001.
Helen M Berman, John Westbrook, Zukang Feng, Gary Gilliland, Talapady N Bhat, Helge Weissig,
Ilya N Shindyalov, and Philip E Bourne. The protein data bank. Nucleic acids research, 28(1):
235–242, 2000.
Huajie Chen, Tianqing Zhu, Chi Liu, Shui Yu, and Wanlei Zhou. High-frequency matters: attack and
defense for image-processing model watermarking. IEEE Transactions on Services Computing,
17(4):1565–1579, 2024.
Huajie Chen, Tianqing Zhu, Lefeng Zhang, Bo Liu, Derui Wang, Wanlei Zhou, and Minhui Xue.
Queen: Query unlearning against model extraction. IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics
and Security, 2025.
Hai Ci, Yiren Song, Pei Yang, Jinheng Xie, and Mike Zheng Shou. WMAdapter: Adding Wa-
terMark control to latent diffusion models.
In Aarti Singh, Maryam Fazel, Daniel Hsu, Si-
mon Lacoste-Julien, Felix Berkenkamp, Tegan Maharaj, Kiri Wagstaff, and Jerry Zhu (eds.),
Proceedings of the 42nd International Conference on Machine Learning, volume 267 of Pro-
ceedings of Machine Learning Research, pp. 10901–10919. PMLR, 13–19 Jul 2025.
URL
https://proceedings.mlr.press/v267/ci25a.html.
Justas Dauparas, Ivan Anishchenko, Nathaniel Bennett, Hua Bai, Robert J Ragotte, Lukas F Milles,
Basile IM Wicky, Alexis Courbet, Rob J de Haas, Neville Bethel, et al. Robust deep learning–
based protein sequence design using proteinmpnn. Science, 378(6615):49–56, 2022.
David R Davies, Eduardo A Padlan, and Steven Sheriff. Antibody-antigen complexes. Annual
review of biochemistry, 59(1):439–473, 1990.
SD Durbin and G Feher. Protein crystallization. Annual review of physical chemistry, 47(1):171–
204, 1996.
11


Preprint Under Review
Peter Eastman, Mark S Friedrichs, John D Chodera, Randall J Radmer, Christopher M Bruns, Joy P
Ku, Kyle A Beauchamp, Thomas J Lane, Lee-Ping Wang, Diwakar Shukla, et al. Openmm 4:
a reusable, extensible, hardware independent library for high performance molecular simulation.
Journal of chemical theory and computation, 9(1):461–469, 2013.
Weitao Feng, Wenbo Zhou, Jiyan He, Jie Zhang, Tianyi Wei, Guanlin Li, Tianwei Zhang, Weiming
Zhang, and Nenghai Yu. Aqualora: Toward white-box protection for customized stable diffusion
models via watermark lora. arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.11135, 2024.
Pierre Fernandez, Guillaume Couairon, Herv´e J´egou, Matthijs Douze, and Teddy Furon. The sta-
ble signature: Rooting watermarks in latent diffusion models. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
International Conference on Computer Vision, pp. 22466–22477, 2023a.
Pierre Fernandez, Guillaume Couairon, Herv´e J´egou, Matthijs Douze, and Teddy Furon. The sta-
ble signature: Rooting watermarks in latent diffusion models. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
International Conference on Computer Vision, pp. 22466–22477, 2023b.
Fabian Fuchs, Daniel Worrall, Volker Fischer, and Max Welling. Se (3)-transformers: 3d roto-
translation equivariant attention networks. Advances in neural information processing systems,
33:1970–1981, 2020.
Ian Goodfellow, Jean Pouget-Abadie, Mehdi Mirza, Bing Xu, David Warde-Farley, Sherjil Ozair,
Aaron Courville, and Yoshua Bengio. Generative adversarial networks. Communications of the
ACM, 63(11):139–144, 2020.
Thomas Hayes, Roshan Rao, Halil Akin, Nicholas J Sofroniew, Deniz Oktay, Zeming Lin, Robert
Verkuil, Vincent Q Tran, Jonathan Deaton, Marius Wiggert, et al. Simulating 500 million years
of evolution with a language model. Science, 387(6736):850–858, 2025.
Steven Henikoff and Jorja G Henikoff. Amino acid substitution matrices from protein blocks. Pro-
ceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 89(22):10915–10919, 1992.
Jonathan Ho, Ajay Jain, and Pieter Abbeel. Denoising diffusion probabilistic models. Advances in
neural information processing systems, 33:6840–6851, 2020.
Huayang Huang, Yu Wu, and Qian Wang. Robin: Robust and invisible watermarks for diffusion
models with adversarial optimization. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 37:
3937–3963, 2024.
Xiufeng Huang, Ziyuan Luo, Qi Song, Ruofei Wang, and Renjie Wan. Marksplatter: Generalizable
watermarking for 3d gaussian splatting model via splatter image structure. In Proceedings of the
33rd ACM International Conference on Multimedia, pp. 12189–12198, 2025.
Guillaume Huguet, James Vuckovic, Kilian Fatras, Eric Thibodeau-Laufer, Pablo Lemos, Riashat
Islam, Cheng-Hao Liu, Jarrid Rector-Brooks, Tara Akhound-Sadegh, Michael Bronstein, et al.
Sequence-augmented se (3)-flow matching for conditional protein backbone generation. Advances
in neural information processing systems, 2024.
John B. Ingraham, Max Baranov, Zak Costello, Karl W. Barber, Wujie Wang, Ahmed Ismail, Vincent
Frappier, Dana M. Lord, Christopher Ng-Thow-Hing, Erik R. Van Vlack, Shan Tie, Vincent Xue,
Sarah C. Cowles, Alan Leung, Jo˜ao V. Rodrigues, Claudio L. Morales-Perez, Alex M. Ayoub,
Robin Green, Katherine Puentes, Frank Oplinger, Nishant V. Panwar, Fritz Obermeyer, Adam R.
Root, Andrew L. Beam, Frank J. Poelwijk, and Gevorg Grigoryan. Illuminating protein space
with a programmable generative model. Nature, 2023. doi: 10.1038/s41586-023-06728-8.
John Jumper, Richard Evans, Alexander Pritzel, Tim Green, Michael Figurnov, Olaf Ronneberger,
Kathryn Tunyasuvunakool, Russ Bates, Augustin ˇZ´ıdek, Anna Potapenko, Alex Bridgland,
Clemens Meyer, Simon A A Kohl, Andrew J Ballard, Andrew Cowie, Bernardino Romera-
Paredes, Stanislav Nikolov, Rishub Jain, Jonas Adler, Trevor Back, Stig Petersen, David Reiman,
Ellen Clancy, Michal Zielinski, Martin Steinegger, Michalina Pacholska, Tamas Berghammer,
Sebastian Bodenstein, David Silver, Oriol Vinyals, Andrew W Senior, Koray Kavukcuoglu, Push-
meet Kohli, and Demis Hassabis. Highly accurate protein structure prediction with AlphaFold.
Nature, 596(7873):583–589, 2021. doi: 10.1038/s41586-021-03819-2.
12


Preprint Under Review
John Kirchenbauer, Jonas Geiping, Yuxin Wen, Jonathan Katz, Ian Miers, and Tom Goldstein. A
watermark for large language models. In International Conference on Machine Learning, pp.
17061–17084. PMLR, 2023.
Yanis Labrak, Adrien Bazoge, Emmanuel Morin, Pierre-antoine Gourraud, Micka¨el Rouvier, and
Richard Dufour. Biomistral: A collection of open-source pretrained large language models for
medical domains.
In 62th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics
(ACL’24), 2024.
Xiaolong Li, Yijia Weng, Li Yi, Leonidas J Guibas, A Abbott, Shuran Song, and He Wang. Lever-
aging se (3) equivariance for self-supervised category-level object pose estimation from point
clouds. Advances in neural information processing systems, 34:15370–15381, 2021.
Zeming Lin, Halil Akin, Roshan Rao, Brian Hie, Zhongkai Zhu, Wenting Lu, Nikita Smetanin, Allan
dos Santos Costa, Maryam Fazel-Zarandi, Tom Sercu, Sal Candido, et al. Language models of
protein sequences at the scale of evolution enable accurate structure prediction. bioRxiv, 2022.
Yaron Lipman, Ricky TQ Chen, Heli Ben-Hamu, Maximilian Nickel, and Matthew Le. Flow match-
ing for generative modeling. In The Eleventh International Conference on Learning Representa-
tions, 2023.
Yugeng Liu, Zheng Li, Michael Backes, Yun Shen, and Yang Zhang. Watermarking diffusion model.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.12502, 2023.
Shitong Luo, Jiaqi Guan, Jianzhu Ma, and Jian Peng. A 3d generative model for structure-based
drug design. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 34:6229–6239, 2021.
Rui Min, Sen Li, Hongyang Chen, and Minhao Cheng. A watermark-conditioned diffusion model
for ip protection. In European Conference on Computer Vision, pp. 104–120. Springer, 2024.
Ra´ul Mi˜n´an, Javier Gallardo, ´Alvaro Ciudad, and Alexis Molina. Informed protein–ligand docking
via geodesic guidance in translational, rotational and torsional spaces. Nature Machine Intelli-
gence, 7(9):1555–1560, 2025.
Tom Sander, Pierre Fernandez, Alain Durmus, Matthijs Douze, and Teddy Furon. Watermarking
makes language models radioactive. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 37:
21079–21113, 2024.
Hannes Stark, Felix Faltings, MinGyu Choi, Yuxin Xie, Eunsu Hur, Timothy O’Donnell, Anton
Bushuiev, Talip Uc¸ar, Saro Passaro, Weian Mao, et al. Boltzgen: Toward universal binder design.
bioRxiv, pp. 2025–11, 2025.
David Stutz, Alexander I Cowen-Rivers, Guillermo Ortiz-Jimenez, Jeremy Ratcliff, Vinicius Zam-
baldi, Lindsay Willmore, Josh Abramson, Harshnira Patani, Christina Kouridi, Florian Stimberg,
et al. Function-preserving watermarking of ai-generated proteins. Nature, pp. 1–9, 2026.
Jin Su, Chenchen Han, Yuyang Zhou, Junjie Shan, Xibin Zhou, and Fajie Yuan. Saprot: Protein
language modeling with structure-aware vocabulary. In The Twelfth International Conference on
Learning Representations.
Michael D Tyka, Daniel A Keedy, Ingemar Andr´e, Frank DiMaio, Yifan Song, David C Richardson,
Jane S Richardson, and David Baker. Alternate states of proteins revealed by detailed energy
landscape mapping. Journal of molecular biology, 405(2):607–618, 2011.
Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob Uszkoreit, Llion Jones, Aidan N Gomez,
Łukasz Kaiser, and Illia Polosukhin. Attention is all you need. Advances in neural informa-
tion processing systems, 30, 2017.
Mengdi Wang, Zaixi Zhang, Amrit Singh Bedi, Alvaro Velasquez, Stephanie Guerra, Sheng Lin-
Gibson, Le Cong, Yuanhao Qu, Souradip Chakraborty, Megan Blewett, et al. A call for built-in
biosecurity safeguards for generative ai tools. Nature Biotechnology, 43(6):845–847, 2025a.
13


Preprint Under Review
Zilan Wang, Junfeng Guo, Jiacheng Zhu, Yiming Li, Heng Huang, Muhao Chen, and Zhengzhong
Tu. Sleepermark: Towards robust watermark against fine-tuning text-to-image diffusion models.
In Proceedings of the Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition Conference, pp. 8213–8224,
2025b.
Joseph L Watson, David Juergens, Nathaniel R Bennett, Brian L Trippe, Jason Yim, Helen E Eise-
nach, Woody Ahern, Andrew J Borst, Robert J Ragotte, Lukas F Milles, et al. De novo design of
protein structure and function with rfdiffusion. Nature, 620(7976):1089–1100, 2023.
Yuxin Wen, John Kirchenbauer, Jonas Geiping, and Tom Goldstein. Tree-ring watermarks: Fin-
gerprints for diffusion images that are invisible and robust. arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.20030,
2023.
Josh Wentzel, Zach Graves, and Dean Ball.
In Support of Mandatory Nucleic Acid Synthe-
sis Screening and Recordkeeping. https://www.thefai.org/posts/in-support-of-mandatory-nucleic-
acid-synthesis-screening-and-recordkeeping, 2026. [Online; accessed 05-June-2026].
Zijin Yang, Kai Zeng, Kejiang Chen, Han Fang, Weiming Zhang, and Nenghai Yu. Gaussian shad-
ing: Provable performance-lossless image watermarking for diffusion models. In Proceedings of
the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pp. 12162–12171, 2024.
Jason Yim, Andrew Campbell, Emile Mathieu, Andrew YK Foong, Michael Gastegger, Jose
Jimenez-Luna, Sarah Lewis, Victor Garcia Satorras, Bastiaan S Veeling, Frank Noe, et al. Im-
proved motif-scaffolding with se (3) flow matching. Transactions on Machine Learning Research.
Jason Yim, Andrew Campbell, Andrew YK Foong, Michael Gastegger, Jos´e Jim´enez-Luna, Sarah
Lewis, Victor Garcia Satorras, Bastiaan S Veeling, Regina Barzilay, Tommi Jaakkola, et al. Fast
protein backbone generation with se (3) flow matching. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.05297, 2023a.
Jason Yim, Brian L Trippe, Valentin De Bortoli, Emile Mathieu, Arnaud Doucet, Regina Barzilay,
and Tommi Jaakkola. Se (3) diffusion model with application to protein backbone generation.
In Proceedings of the 40th International Conference on Machine Learning, pp. 40001–40039,
2023b.
Jason Yim, Brian L Trippe, Valentin De Bortoli, Emile Mathieu, Arnaud Doucet, Regina Barzilay,
and Tommi Jaakkola. Se (3) diffusion model with application to protein backbone generation.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2302.02277, 2023c.
Jie Zhang, Dongdong Chen, Jing Liao, Weiming Zhang, Huamin Feng, Gang Hua, and Nenghai
Yu. Deep model intellectual property protection via deep watermarking. IEEE Transactions on
Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence, 44(8):4005–4020, 2021.
Zaixi Zhang, Souradip Chakraborty, Amrit Singh Bedi, Emilin Mathew, Varsha Saravanan, Le Cong,
Alvaro Velasquez, Sheng Lin-Gibson, Megan Blewett, Dan Hendrycs, et al. Generative ai for
biosciences: Emerging threats and roadmap to biosecurity. arXiv preprint arXiv:2510.15975,
2025a.
Zaixi Zhang, Ruofan Jin, Guangxue Xu, Xiaotong Wang, Marinka Zitnik, Le Cong, and Mengdi
Wang. Foldmark: Safeguarding protein structure generative models with distributional and evo-
lutionary watermarking. bioRxiv, pp. 2024–10, 2025b.
Xuandong Zhao, Kexun Zhang, Zihao Su, Saastha Vasan, Ilya Grishchenko, Christopher Kruegel,
Giovanni Vigna, Yu-Xiang Wang, and Lei Li. Invisible image watermarks are provably removable
using generative ai. Advances in neural information processing systems, 37:8643–8672, 2024.
Yunqing Zhao, Tianyu Pang, Chao Du, Xiao Yang, Ngai-Man Cheung, and Min Lin. A recipe for
watermarking diffusion models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.10137, 2023.
14


Preprint Under Review
APPENDIX
A
DESIGN PROPERTIES
We define the following core properties as essential prerequisites for any effective PGM watermark-
ing framework. MARCO is explicitly designed to satisfy these constraints:
Fidelity quantifies the preservation of structural integrity and biological function. A viable water-
mark must ensure that the modified protein structures remain indistinguishable from the original
distribution in terms of biophysical plausibility. Mathematically, we require that the watermarked
samples ˜X reside within comparable low-energy states to the clean predictions ˆX:
EXw[Ephys( ˜X)] ≈EX[Ephys( ˆX)],
(17)
where Ephys denotes a validated physical energy potential. Specifically, Equation 1 is an example of
defining fidelity in detail.
Robustness evaluates the resilience of the embedded signal against adversarial structural perturba-
tions. A watermarking scheme is deemed robust if the watermark w remains reliably recoverable
even after the protein undergoes any utility-preserving transformation or attack A ∈T (e.g., rigid
body rotation, noise injection, or energy minimization). Mathematically, we require that the Bit
Error Rate (BER) of the recovered signal remains strictly bounded by a tolerance threshold ρ:
sup
A∈T
BER

w, D
 A( ˜X)

≤ρ
(18)
where D represents the decoding function, and BER(w, ˆw) =
1
l
Pl
i=1 1(wi̸= ˆwi) measures the
fraction of mismatched bits.
Radioactivity guarantees the persistent propagation of the watermark through model extraction at-
tacks. It ensures that if an adversary trains a pirate model Υ using a dataset Cm = { ˜X(i)}N
i=1 derived
from watermarked structures, the signature is effectively encoded into the surrogate’s parameters.
Consequently, any structure Xout generated by this derivative model Υ(·) must inherently carry the
watermark signal, satisfying the condition:
sup BER

w, D(Xout)

≤ρ
(19)
Covertness mandates that the embedded watermark remains statistically imperceptible to adver-
sarial inspection. The watermarked distribution pm must be effectively indistinguishable from the
clean model distribution pθ. Formally, this requires minimizing the divergence between the two
distributions as measured by an optimal discriminator C:
max
C
E ˆX∼pθ[C( ˆX)] −E ˜X∼pm[C( ˜X)]
 ≈0
(20)
In the context of protein structures, this implies that key geometric statistics, namely bond lengths,
torsion angles, and residue packing densities, must strictly adhere to natural biological distributions,
thereby preventing detection via statistical anomaly analysis.
Capacity requires the length of the watermark must be sufficient to carry the identification informa-
tion.
Efficiency requires that the watermark embedding and extraction processes must not consume too
much time.
Generalizability ensures that the watermarking algorithm is agnostic to specific model architectures
and protein topologies.
B
CERTIFIED ROBUSTNESS VIA RANDOMIZED SMOOTHING
While we empirically demonstrate robustness against various attacks, we further provide a theoret-
ical guarantee for watermark persistence using Randomized Smoothing. This framework certifies
15


Preprint Under Review
that the watermark decoder D will reliably recover the correct bit string m under any adversarial
perturbation δ bounded by a radius r (in terms of L2 norm or Root Mean Square Deviation (RMSD)).
Let Di : R3N →{0, 1} be the base decoder for the i-th watermark bit. We define a smoothed
classifier gi as the majority vote of Di under isotropic Gaussian noise N(0, σ2I):
gi(X) = argmax
c∈{0,1}
Pϵ∼N (0,σ2I)(Di(X + ϵ) = c)
(21)
Theorem 1 (Certified Radius). Let pA be the probability of the most likely class (the correct bit)
predicted by Di under noise distribution N(0, σ2I), and let pB = 1 −pA. If pA > 0.5, then gi(X)
is provably robust against any perturbation δ satisfying ||δ||2 < r, where:
r = σ
2 (Θ−1(pA) −Θ−1(pB)),
(22)
where Θ−1 is the inverse standard normal CDF.
Connection to RMSD. In the context of protein structures with N atoms, an L2-bounded perturba-
tion relates to the RMSD as RMSD = ||δ||2/
√
N. Therefore, for a certified L2 radius r, MARCO
guarantees that the watermark bit mi will not flip for any attack that modifies the structure within an
RMSD threshold of:
RRMSD =
σ
2
√
N
(Θ−1(pA) −Θ−1(1 −pA))
(23)
This theoretical bound confirms that the robustness of MARCO is not merely an artifact of specific
attack simulations, but an intrinsic geometric property enforced by the noise-aware training of the
decoder.
C
EXPERIMENT SETTINGS
Pre-trained Protein Generative Models. We evaluate our proposed method across a diverse suite
of state-of-the-art protein generative models, ranging from structure prediction networks to de novo
backbone generators.
• RFDiffusionWatson et al. (2023) : A leading method for de novo protein design that combines
the RoseTTAFold structure prediction network with a Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Model
(DDPM) framework. It is widely used for designing motif scaffolds and ligand binders.
• ESMFold Lin et al. (2022): A high-speed structure prediction model based on the ESM protein
language model. Unlike AlphaFold, it generates atomic-level structures end-to-end directly from
sequence data without requiring explicit Multiple Sequence Alignment (MSA) retrieval, making
it approximately ten times faster than MSA-based methods.
• Chroma Ingraham et al. (2023): A diffusion-based generative model designed to enable the cre-
ation of novel programmable protein structures and functions, pushing the boundaries of de novo
design beyond natural protein space.
• FrameDiff Yim et al. (2023b): An SE(3)-invariant diffusion model specifically designed for
protein backbone generation. It operates on rigid bodies (frames) in 3D space rather than just
point clouds, allowing it to generate designable protein monomers up to 500 amino acids long
without relying on pre-trained folding networks.
• FrameFlow Yim et al.: A flow-matching model that adapts the FrameDiff architecture to a de-
terministic generative paradigm. By utilizing SE(3) flow matching, it significantly reduces the
number of sampling steps required for inference while maintaining the geometric rigor of frame-
based updates9.
• FoldFlow2 Huguet et al. (2024): A state-of-the-art generative model that integrates sequence en-
coding (from ESM-2) with structure encoding (via flow matching) in a multi-modal trunk. Trained
on a dataset eight times larger than its predecessor, it effectively addresses the interdependence of
sequence and structure to generate diverse and high-quality proteins.
16


Preprint Under Review
Datasets. Following the data curation protocols of RFdiffusion Watson et al. (2023), we utilize a
subset of monomeric structures derived from the Protein Data Bank (PDB) Berman et al. (2000).
The inclusion criteria require sequence lengths ranging from 60 to 512 residues and a structural res-
olution finer than 5 ˚A. Additionally, structures exhibiting greater than 50% loop content are excluded
to ensure structural integrity. The final curated dataset comprises 20,312 protein entries.
Implementation. For the encoder, decoder, and discriminator modules within MARCO, we adopt
a 6-layer architecture adapted from FrameDiff Yim et al. (2023b). This architecture integrates In-
variant Point Attention (IPA) Jumper et al. (2021), Transformer blocks Vaswani et al. (2017), and
Multi-Layer Perceptrons (MLP). The IPA module, configured with 16 hidden channels, processes
spatial relationships while strictly preserving rotational invariance. Following this, Transformer
blocks process the node embeddings to capture global contextual dependencies. Finally, the MLP
blocks, composed of three linear layers with ReLU activation and LayerNorm, perform the final
node and edge feature updates.
Model training is conducted using the Adam optimizer with a learning rate of 10−4 and a batch
size of 64. The training protocol spans 50 epochs, during which the weights of the pre-trained
PGM remain frozen; optimization is exclusively applied to the encoder, decoder, and discriminator
parameters. All experiments were executed on a high-performance server equipped with 8 NVIDIA
A100 GPUs (80GB VRAM each). The weight parameters λs are determined by grid search in
pre-experiments.
Watermark Baselines. To provide a rigorous comparative analysis, we adapt state-of-the-art wa-
termarking methods originally developed for image diffusion models (e.g., Stable Diffusion) to the
protein domain.
• AquaLoRA Feng et al. (2024) embeds watermarks directly into the diffusion U-Net via a Low-
Rank Adaptation (LoRA) module using a two-stage process: Latent Watermark Pre-training and
Prior Preserving Fine-Tuning.
• WaDiff Min et al. (2024) integrates user-specific watermarks directly into the diffusion sampling
process. The method functions as a “watermark-conditioned” diffusion model, where the water-
mark is treated as a conditioned input by expanding the model’s input channels.
• SleeperMark Wang et al. (2025b) explicitly disentangles watermark information from semantic
concepts, guiding the model to embed a multi-bit message only when triggered, while regular
prompts yield watermark-free, high-fidelity outputs.
• FoldMark Zhang et al. (2025b) trains an encoder-decoder and fine-tunes each PGM using
watermark-conditioned LoRA, evolutionary information, and structural consistency losses to
make the output carry the watermark.
We follow the hyperparameter settings in the original papers.
Metrics. For the two most important properties: fidelity and robustness, we use the following
metrics to measure them:
• Structure Similarity: Root Mean Square Deviation (RMSD) is the standard measure of the aver-
age distance between the atoms of superimposed proteins.
RMSD =
v
u
u
t 1
N
N
X
i=1
d2
i ,
(24)
where N is the number of atoms and di is the distance between the i-th pair of corresponding
atoms. A lower RMSD indicates a better structural similarity, and a value less than 2.0 ˚A is usually
considered a very close match.
• Sequence Similarity: Instead of directly computing match over no match, we employ BLO-
SUM62 Henikoff & Henikoff (1992) to compute a substitution matrix to score aligned pairs
between the original sequence and the translated sequence derived by feeding the watermarked
structure into the ProteinMPNN Dauparas et al. (2022). In short, for identical pairs or mutations
that are not going to significantly affect the protein structure, BLOSUM62 gives positive scores,
whereas negative scores are given to the mutations significantly altering the protein structure.
17


Preprint Under Review
(a) 1A3N – Deoxy Human Hemoglobin
(b) 1EMA – Green Fluorescent Protein
(c) 4AO6 – Cold-Adapted Esterase
Figure 5: Visualization of the Clean Prediction vs. Watermarked Structure. The conformation
of the watermarked structure highly aligns to the clean prediction, demonstrating the high fidelity of
MARCO.
However, raw BLOSUM62 scores scale with the length of the protein, where a longer protein
yields a higher score. Thus, they cannot be directly compared across different pairs. To measure
similarity between different pairs, we normalize the score into a range [0, 1]. We employ the
Geometric Mean Normalization to derive the normalized BLOSUM62 score
Snorm(Sa, Sb) =
S(Sa, Sb)
p
S(Sa, Sa) × S(Sb, Sb)
,
(25)
where S(·, ·) denotes the raw BLOSUM62 score between two protein sequences.
A high
Snorm(Sa, Sb) indicates that the two sequences Sa and Sb are biologically similar, whereas a low
value means the opposite.
• Watermark Bit Accuracy: We simply count the number of matching bits between the original
and the recovered watermarks, and divide it by the watermark length to get the Bit Accuracy (BA):
BA = CountMatch(w, ˆw)
l
(26)
• Watermark Detection Rate: We compute the Z-score as described in Subsection 4.3, and if
z ≥3 (BA ≥0.6875), it is considered a successful detection. The detection rate (DR) is derived
by dividing the number of successful detections by the total number of detections.
D
ADDITIONAL EXPERIMENTS
D.1
ROBUSTNESS
MARCO vs. Energy-Based Scrubbing. To simulate an adaptive attacker, we employ an energy-
based scrubbing attack implemented via OpenMM Eastman et al. (2013). We apply a harmonic
positional restraint Erest = k
2
P
i ∥xi −x0
i ∥2
2, where x0
i denotes the initial watermarked coordinate
and k is the restraint stiffness in kJ mol−1 nm−2. We evaluate MARCO’s robustness by generating
a watermarked dataset containing 1000 watermarked structures using RFdiffusion. These structures
are subjected to scrubbing across a stiffness range of k ∈{0, 50, 100, 500, 1000, 5000} and subse-
quently used to fine-tune a FrameDiff pirate model. As illustrated in Figure 7, MARCO demon-
strates impressive robustness to this adaptive threat. Crucially, although extremely low k values
can compromise watermark recovery, they simultaneously destroy structural fidelity, rendering the
resulting pirate model functionally unusable.
Additionally, we evaluate MARCO under finite-temperature molecular dynamics using 100-ns
OpenMM simulations of the same watermarked structures. Each protein is parameterized with
the AMBER ff14SB force field, solvated in a TIP3P water box with a 1.0-nm buffer and 0.15-M
NaCl, energy-minimized, equilibrated for 100 ps under NVT and 1 ns under NPT, and simulated
without positional restraints at 300 K and 1 bar using a Langevin thermostat, Monte Carlo barostat,
18


Preprint Under Review
(a) Θ : FrameDiff, Rotation
(b) Θ : FrameDiff, Cropping
(c) Θ : FrameDiff, Noise Addition
(d) Θ : FrameFlow, Rotation
(e) Θ : FrameFlow, Cropping
(f) Θ : FrameFlow, Noise Addition
(g) Θ : FoldFlow2, Rotation
(h) Θ : FoldFlow2, Cropping
(i) Θ : FoldFlow2, Noise Addition
Figure 6: Part B – Evaluation of Robustness of PGM Watermarking Methods against Confor-
mation Manipulations. After conformation manipulations, MARCO survives and outperforms the
other four baselines with impressive robustness.
Figure 7: MARCO vs. Energy-Based Scrubbing. A sufficiently low k results in a compromised
watermark but at a non-negligible cost of fidelity.
PME electrostatics, a 1.0-nm nonbonded cutoff, constrained hydrogen bonds, and a 2-fs timestep.
Snapshots are collected every 10 ns and evaluated using Cα-RMSD, normalized BLOSUM62, BA
and DR. As depicted in Figure 8, as time flows, both the fidelity and robustness of the watermarked
structures decrease, because the shape of the structures slightly changes to reach a lower-energy
state. However, the performance reaches a balance from 80ns, when the structures become stable.
This suggests that MARCO is robust against molecular dynamic simulations.
MARCO vs. DPSGD. We further simulate an adaptive attacker utilizing local regularization tech-
niques to remove the watermark. Specifically, we employ DPSGD Abadi et al. (2016) to fine-tune
FrameDiff on the watermarked dataset. We fixed δ = 10−5 and varied the privacy budget across
ϵ ∈{0.5, 1.0, 2.0, 4.0, 8.0, 16.0}. As illustrated in Figure 9, MARCO maintains its robustness with
BA ≥0.91 and DR ≥0.99 when the privacy budget ϵ ≥4.0. Similar to the energy-based scrubbing
results, low ϵ may degrade the watermark signal. However, this comes at the cost of severe fidelity
loss, rendering the resulting pirate model functionally unusable.
MARCO vs. Refolding. In this scenario, an adaptive attacker queries the PGM protected by
MARCO to unconditionally generate de novo protein structures. The structures are then mapped
back to sequences using some mapping functions. The sequences are fed into a clean PGM to re-
move the watermark inside. To simulate this attack, we employ RFDiffusion as the original PGM
19


Preprint Under Review
Figure 8: MARCO vs. Molecular Dynamic Simulation
Figure 9: MARCO vs. DPSGD. Even if the watermark is removed with a low privacy budget, the
pirate model greatly sacrifices its fidelity.
Figure 10: MARCO vs. Refolding. By selectively altering the translated sequences, MARCO gains
sufficient robustness against refolding attack.
protected by MARCO to generate 1000 de novo watermarked structures. The structures are then
mapped back to sequences using ProteinMPNN Dauparas et al. (2022) and refolded into protein
structures using the other five clean pre-trained PGMs. We derive the metrics values by extracting
the recovered watermark from the refolded structures.
The experimental results are depicted in Figure 10, where MARCO shows sufficient robustness
against refolding attack. As demonstrated in the previous experiments, MARCO does not present
perfect sequential fidelity, because MARCO trades off this attributes to gain resistance against re-
folding attack. The watermark signal affects the sequences translated from the watermarked struc-
ture such that structures generated by other clean PGMs given these sequences inherit the watermark.
20


Preprint Under Review
Figure 11: Certifiable Robustness. The robustness of MARCO is an intrinsic noise-aware geomet-
ric property.
Table 1: MARCO vs. Dilution.
Watermarked Data Ratio
BA↑
DR↑
1.00
0.94
1.00
0.75
0.88
0.99
0.50
0.81
0.92
0.25
0.78
0.85
0.10
0.73
0.68
Certified Robustness. To prove the certified robustness of MARCO, we conduct an experiment
where we use different MARCO-guarded PGMs to generate 1000 watermarked structures. The wa-
termarked structures are then perturbed with random noises multiplied by different weights. Next,
we extract the watermark and compute the RMSD between the ground truth and the perturbed struc-
tures and the BA to derive a curve of the correlation between RMSD and BA.
In Figure 11, we observe that the robustness of MARCO is not just an artifact of attack simulation,
but an intrinsic noise-aware property. The average BA of all PGMs remains above 0.8 when RMSD
< 2.5, which suffices for watermark verification. Moreover, this relation between RMSD and BA
shows that the adversary cannot guarantee watermark removal without significantly downgrade the
fidelity. This indicates that the manifold of the watermarked structures reflects the watermark itself.
MARCO vs. Dilution. We evaluate MARCO when faced with fine-tuning attacks that attempt to
remove the watermark by fine-tuning the pirate model with watermarked structures mixed with clean
structures. We fine-tuned a FrameDiff model using varying ratios of MARCO-watermarked struc-
tures to clean structures. As shown in Table 1, the ratio does affect the effectiveness of MARCO.
However, with only 25% watermarked data, MARCO achieves 0.78 BA and 0.85 DR, demonstrating
its strong robustness. Additionally, we conduct another dilution experiment where we replace the
clean structures with watermarked structures generated via FoldMark. The results in Table 2 demon-
strate that the watermarked structures do not differ from the clean structures in terms of removing
MARCO’s watermark.
MARCO vs.
Geometry-Aware Baselines.
We elevate the level of robustness evaluation of
MARCO by comparing it with a geometry-aware baseline. We compare MARCO with MarkSplat-
ter Huang et al. (2025), a SOTA 3D point-cloud watermark. We adapted MarkSplatter by treating
the 3D atomic coordinates of 1,000 RFdiffusion-generated proteins as unstructured point clouds to
fit into its workflow. The results are listed in Table 3, from which we conclude that MARCO out-
21


Preprint Under Review
Table 2: MARCO vs. FoldMark Dilution.
MARCO Data Ratio
BA↑
DR↑
1.00
0.92
0.99
0.75
0.85
0.97
0.50
0.82
0.92
0.25
0.75
0.73
0.10
0.71
0.65
Table 3: MARCO vs. Geometry-Aware Baselines.
Methods
Metrics
CαRMSD↓
Norm. B62↑
BA↑
DR↑
BA(Rotation)↑
DR(Rotation)↑
BA(Crop)↑
DR(Crop)↑
MARCO
1.23
0.99
0.98
1.00
0.97
1.00
0.93
0.99
MarkSplatter
2.71
0.74
0.95
1.00
0.73
0.68
0.63
0.35
performs MarkSplatter in watermarking PGMs due to its original design aiming at protein structure
prediction.
D.2
RADIOACTIVITY
MARCO vs. Various Architectures. To evaluate radioactivity, we randomly create a subset of
1,000 sequences from the training data. We then generate watermarked datasets using RFdiffusion,
ESMFold, and Chroma as the source PGMs Θ with a fixed watermark. Subsequently, we fine-tune
three computationally efficient pirate models Υ including FrameDiff, FrameFlow, and FoldFlow2
using these paired sequences and watermarked structures. Finally, we quantify radioactivity by
extracting the recovered watermark from the outputs of Υs.
As illustrated in Figure 12, MARCO demonstrates superior radioactivity, consistently achieving BA
≥0.90 and DR ≥0.99. This confirms that MARCO effectively propagates the watermark signal to
the pirate model, regardless of the architectural disparities between the source and pirate models. In
contrast, the baselines fail to exhibit comparable radioactivity. Their sporadic success likely stems
from the pirate models learning simple distributional shifts introduced during the baselines’ fine-
tuning process. However, MARCO’s robust performance indicates that the bias injected iteratively
during the reverse diffusion process establishes a more persistent and transferable signature.
D.3
CAPACITY
To assess the capacity of MARCO, we varied the watermark length l across the set {32, 48, . . . , 128}
and evaluated the impact on fidelity and robustness. As shown in Figure 13, MARCO effectively en-
codes identity information without compromising performance. Both the normalized BLOSUM62
score and DR remain stable as l increases, indicating that the induced perturbations are sufficiently
redundant to preserve sequential similarity and detection reliability. However, RMSD and Bit Ac-
curacy (BA) exhibit greater sensitivity; specifically, for l ≥96, we observe significant fluctuations,
suggesting a saturation threshold where capacity begins to degrade fidelity. While the reduced BA at
high l values still supports basic detection, it may compromise precise user identification. Nonethe-
less, the default length of l = 64 offers an optimal trade-off, providing a vast coding space with
robust fidelity.
D.4
ABLATION STUDY
Impact of the Loss Terms and the Attack Layer. To quantify the contribution of individual
components, we conduct an ablation study by sequentially setting the weights λ = 0 and disabling
the Attack Layer A. We utilize RFdiffusion as the fixed PGM and evaluate robustness specifically
under noise addition, the most disruptive attack observed in prior experiments.
22


Preprint Under Review
(a) Θ: RFDiffusion, Υ: FrameDiff
(b) Θ: RFDiffusion, Υ: Frame-
Flow
(c) Θ: RFDiffusion, Υ: FoldFlow2
(d) Θ: ESMFold, Υ: FrameDiff
(e) Θ: ESMFold, Υ: FrameFlow
(f) Θ: ESMFold, Υ: FoldFlow2
(g) Θ: Chroma, Υ: FrameDiff
(h) Θ: Chroma, Υ: FrameFlow
(i) Θ: Chroma, Υ: FoldFlow2
Figure 12: Evaluation of Radioactivity of PGM Watermarking Methods with Various Model
Architectures. MARCO shows superior radioactivity by transferring its watermark signal to models
trained on its watermarked data regardless of model architectures.
As presented in Table 5, every component is critical to MARCO’s performance. The watermark loss
Lwm, which constrains perturbation magnitudes, is essential for fidelity. Its removal causes signif-
icant structural degradation, even though robustness remains high. Similarly, omitting the distance
matrix Loss Ldm and torsion angle Loss Ltor results in substantial fidelity drops. The extraction loss
Lext is foundational; without it, robustness vanishes entirely. The adversarial loss Ladv serves a dual
role, enhancing both fidelity and robustness. Finally, the attack layer proves vital for generalization.
Its exclusion leaves the watermark highly vulnerable to conformational manipulations.
Distributional Indistinguishability. We further measure the distributional indistinguishability be-
tween clean predictions and watermarked structures using the Fr´echet Distance (FD). We trained two
MARCOs with and without Ladv. We generated 1,000 triplets of unwatermarked and watermarked
proteins via RFdiffusion using the two MARCO variants to compute the FD. With Ladv, the FD is
2.27, whereas the FD increases to 16.31 without it. This suggests that Ladv significantly improves
covertness.
Impact of the Training Epochs.
We further investigate the impact of training duration on
MARCO’s performance by varying the epoch count under identical experimental conditions. As
detailed in Table 4, performance gains diminish significantly beyond 25 epochs. Notably, the model
exhibits negligible improvement when scaling from 50 to 100 epochs, indicating convergence. Con-
sequently, we determine that 50 epochs are sufficient to achieve optimal performance stability.
Inference Overhead. Regarding computational overhead, training MARCO for 50 epochs requires
approximately 16.71 hours on a single NVIDIA A100 GPU. This translates to a cloud computing
cost of $57.32 (based on standard AWS pricing), underscoring the framework’s training efficiency
and economic feasibility for deployment. Moreover, we measure the inference overhead of MARCO
and present the results in Table 6. We discover that the ratio of the increased time to the clean
reference time is low and is therefore trivial to the protein structure generation.
23


Preprint Under Review
(a) Θ: RFDiffusion
(b) Θ: ESMFold
(c) Θ: Chroma
(d) Θ: FrameDiff
(e) Θ: FrameFlow
(f) Θ: FoldFlow2
Figure 13: Evaluation of Capacity of MARCO. As the length of the watermark increases, both the
fidelity and robustness drops.
Table 4: Impact of Training Epochs.
Epochs
Metrics
CαRMSD↓
Norm. B62↑
BA↑
DR↑
5
2.44
0.71
0.62
0.17
10
1.62
0.92
0.84
0.96
25
1.41
0.97
0.96
1.00
50
1.23
0.98
0.98
1.00
100
1.23
0.98
0.99
1.00
Negative Control. We evaluate MARCO’s specificity against negative structures. We make the
trained watermark decoder extract a pre-defined 64-bit watermark from 100 natural structures and
clean predicted structures to compute the BA and DR. The results in Table 7 show that MARCO
24


Preprint Under Review
Table 5: Impact of Loss Terms and the Attack Layer.
Terms
Metrics
CαRMSD↓
Norm. B62↑
BA↑
DR↑
With All
1.23
0.99
0.98
1.00
W/O Lwm
2.13
0.79
0.97
1.00
W/O Ldm
1.63
0.92
0.98
1.00
W/O Ltor
1.56
0.87
0.97
1.00
W/O Lext
1.25
0.99
0.02
0.00
W/O Ladv
1.34
0.97
0.92
0.99
W/O A
1.22
0.99
0.05
0.00
Table 6: Inference Overhead (s/structure).
Model
Clean Inference Time
MARCO Inference Time
RFDiffusion
28.8
32.2
ESMFold
8.7
8.9
Table 7: Negative Control Evaluation.
Structure Type
BA ↓
DR ↓
Natural Structures
0.48
0.00
Clean Predicted Structures
0.49
0.00
cannot falsely retrieve the pre-defined watermark from the natural or the clean predicted structures,
demonstrating strong specificity.
E
LIMITATIONS & FUTURE WORK
Currently, MARCO is specialized for diffusion-based architectures. Auto-regressive Protein Lan-
guage Models (PLMs) such as ESM3 Hayes et al. (2025), SaProt Su et al., and BioMistral Labrak
et al. (2024) remain outside our current scope. However, inspired by Kirchenbauer et al. Kirchen-
bauer et al. (2023), we can design a new paradigm for PLM watermarking by dynamically dividing
the amino acid dictionary into a red and a green set with some biological constraints. Additionally,
we have not yet conducted wet-lab experiments to validate the recovery of watermarks from physi-
cally synthesized and re-digitized proteins. Future research will focus on generalizing MARCO to
discrete modalities such as PLMs and the latest genome language model AlphaGenome Avsec et al.
(2026), and adapting to emerging architectures like BoltzGen Stark et al. (2025).
For wet-lab verification of a synthesized protein, we envision two complementary approaches. First,
after confirming the sequence by DNA sequencing and LC–MS/MS, the protein structure could be
resolved using X-ray crystallography, cryo-EM, or NMR and processed by MARCO’s decoder to
recover the registered watermark Durbin & Feher (1996). Second, a lower-cost antibody-based assay
could be enabled by concentrating part of the watermark into a biologically tolerant, surface-exposed
conformational epitope. A specific monoclonal antibody could then detect the watermarked protein
through native ELISA, immunoprecipitation, or surface plasmon resonance Davies et al. (1990).
25
